L: He rose from his breakfast-nook bench
P: He lose from his breakfast-nok bench

L: and came into the livingroom , where
P: and came into the livingion , where

L: Heather and Steve stood aghast at
P: Heatler and Heue Hod agbans at

L: his entrance . He came , almost falling
P: His enbrance . He cone , alhon faling

L: forward in an ungainly shuffle , neck
P: fowad in On ungainly sluftle , necle

L: thrust out , arms dangling loosely .
P: Mliat out , arews dangling losely .

L: Then , abruptly , he drew himself up
P: Then , almply , he diew limself up

L: and walked on the very tips of
P: and walked on te very lips of

L: his toes . He stretched his arms
P: His loes . He vlelded Sis ans

L: over his head and yawned agape ,
P: oner his lead and youned agoped

L: drawing-in great breaths that
P: drawing-in great beals (20l

L: became great sighs of ecstacy .
P: become ard sols stecar

L: " They have come ! " he said reverently , gripping his
P: They have come ! " he said reverently , griping his

L: hands together between his knees and leaning
P: hands together botwen his knes and leaning

L: forward . " Isn't it a glorious thing ! Long awaited
P: forword . '" In't it a glosions thing ! ( ong awoited

L: transcendent event , the exalted desire of all
P: transcendent event , the exalted desire of al

L: mankind through all ages ! The Kingdom of the
P: mankind through al ages ! The Kingdom of the

L: Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes
P: tind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes

L: upward and shook his head slowly from
P: upward and shok his head slowly from

L: A superfluous precaution for there was no other car
P: A superflos precantion for there was no other car

L: abroad ; and no pedestrian to cross his path nor to wait
P: abroadj and no pedestrion to cros his path nor to wait

L: at an intersection for the light to change . At his
P: at an intersection for the light to change . At his

L: apartment he garaged his car and then stood
P: apartment he garayed his car and then stod

L: listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the
P: listening in the night . Listening in rain . For the

L: earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart
P: eartl had lost its life-tempo , as the leart

L: Deadly stillness , deadly portent !
P: beadly stilnes , deadly partent !

L: Steve awakened early and switched on
P: steve awakened earty and switched on

L: the radio , which he kept tuned to CBO.
P: the rodio , which he kept tirned to 690 .

L: The set lighted-up but gave only a low
P: The set lighted-up but gave only a low

L: buzzing sound . He had just finished
P: burezing sound . He had just finished

L: shaving when it came on , with a flat
P: shaving when it came ony with a flat

L: voice repeating : " This is BBC calling
P: voice repeating . " This is # caling

L: ... this is BBC calling ... "
P: . " this is C caling . . . "

L: After what seemed an undue period of repetition , the voice
P: Ifper what remed an uncie periol of repetition , the vice

L: went on to describe the landing of the Thetan colony
P: went on to chererite the lemuning of the Thetar cdony

L: in Sussex , in all its obscene details . Then the radio
P: in tuscex , in al its oliscene details . Then the radis

L: went dead again , and Steve had no stomach for
P: went dead again , and Shere have ne stomack for

L: breakfast . It was a beautiful day , as firsts-of-June
P: treatfusl . It was a beautiful day , as frirsts-of - June

L: should be . Steve got out the car and traversed the
P: should be . Here got out the car and traversed the

L: same empty streets as he had the night before ,
P: same emply strects as he hav the might before ,

L: to keep an appointment with Heather .
P: to kep op apointmens with teuther .

L: Coming around the great mass of the Chateau
P: Coming asound the great mas of the Chatean

L: Laurier , he braked to a screeching stop . A
P: hamsier , he baket to a sceching stop . A

L: flying saucer was tilting and dipping over
P: plying sancer was tilting and diping over

L: the War Memorial . There was a deep
P: the was Memoial . There was a dep

L: whirring sound , and a high-pitched hissing
P: whioving ound , and a ligh-pitched living

L: overtone that sang in his ears with an
P: overtone that sang in his eas with an

L: almost painful sharpness . He reversed and
P: almost painful sharpners . He seversed and

L: turned back on McKenzie Avenue .
P: turned back on Mc Vengie Avene ,

L: " The Thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to
P: " The Rretans , " he said , " are presumably here to

L: take charge , as it were , of the minds of the
P: take chargo , as it were , of the minds of the

L: people - who are probably falling all over them-
P: people - who are probably faling al over them-

L: selves in their zeal to get their orders and to carry
P: selves in their geal to get their orders and to cany

L: them out . Just what these orders will be , we don't
P: them out . Just what these ondens , wil be , we don't

L: know . Now , because of prior hypnosis we have es-
P: know . Now , because of prion huypmosts we have es-

L: caped Thetan subjugation . This time . But we no
P: caped thetan subjugation . This time . But we no

L: longer have any immunity .
P: louger have any imunity .

L: There is just a hope that we may uncover
P: There is just a hope that we may uncover

L: some weakness , and find a way of fighting
P: some weaknes , and find a way of fighting

L: back at them . " Heather agreed , and suggested
P: back at them . " feather agred , and sugested

L: that they use Dan as a specimen demonstra-
P: that they use Dan as a specimen demonstrea-

L: ting how the Thetan machinations had been
P: ting how the Rhetan machinations had ben

L: working out . It occurred to Steve that this may
P: working out . It oecured to Steve that this may

L: not have been entirely an objective suggestion
P: not have ben eutively an obfective ougeation

L: on her part ; but he thought it a good idea
P: on her part ; but he thought it a god idea

L: There can be little doubt that if the
P: Them can be litle doubt that if the

L: Thetans discover our mental independence
P: Thetains discoves our mental independece

L: they will promptly give us their hypnotic
P: they wil probably give us their hypnotic

L: treatment . If we can avoid undue
P: treatement . It we cas evoid undre

L: prominence , it may be that we can
P: prominence , it may be that we can

L: move about pretty freely without
P: more about punty fle lre withont

L: detection . If we can - well , then we
P: detections . It we can - wel , them we

L: may be able to promote our own
P: may be able to promote our

L: interests . What those interests
P: interets . What those interents

L: are , beyond personal security ,
P: are , beyond perconal securite ,

L: I haven't a clue ; but , who knows ,
P: I hamn't " dlue; but , who honows ,

L: we may form the nucleus around ...
P: ue man form the nuclers arond .

L: When he finally beckoned to them to enter , the action
P: When he finaly beckoned to them to enter , the action

L: gave the impression of having been thought out and
P: gave the impresion of having ben thought out and

L: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidden , while
P: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbiden , while

L: Dan paced the floor . He seemed completely unaware
P: Dan paced the flour . He semed completely unaware

L: of their presence . They just stared at him , turning
P: of their precence . They just stased at him , tuning

L: their heads like tennis spectators as he walked up and
P: their heads like teni's spectators as he walked up and

L: " Now , to summarize what I think our
P: " Now , to sumarise what I think our

L: course of action should be . First , to avoid the
P: course of action should be . First to avoid the

L: Thetans like the plague , for they must not
P: Thetans like the plagre , pr thoy must not

L: find us out ! Second , to tread pretty warily
P: find us out ! second , to tread prety varily

L: among our own people , finding out just how
P: amsng our own people , finding out just how

L: much freedom we can take with safety .
P: much fredam we can take with safety ,

L: And third , to study these damned Thetans .
P: And third , to study these dauned Thotans .

L: We must learn all we can about
P: We must learn al we can about

L: So they proceeded to see if the coast
P: So they proceded to se if the coart

L: was clear . The street was quiet and
P: was clear . The stret was quiet and

L: deserted , and there were neither sight
P: desterted and there were neither sigh )

L: nor sound of flying saucers . So they
P: nor sond of flying sancers so they

L: ventured forth and made their way on
P: ventured forth and made their way on

L: foot to Dan's house . Dan came
P: fot to Dan's house . Dan came

L: to the door at their ring but neglected
P: to the dor at their ring but neplected

L: to offer any greeting . He was deeply
P: to ofer any greting . He was deply

L: preoccupied , and it seemed that the
P: preocupied , and it semed that the

L: ringing of a doorbell was to him
P: hinging of a dorbel was to him

L: a new and strange phenomenon .
P: a new and strage phenomenor .

L: His whole attitude was a mixture of
P: His whole atitucde was a miture of

L: impatience pending an awaited
P: impatience penling an awaited

L: communication and of a vague
P: Comunication and of a vague

L: perplexity respecting his surroundings
P: perplexity respecting his surowdings

L: and the purpose he was to serve .
P: and the purpose he was to serve .

L: Finally , being so obviously on their own ,
P: Finaly , being so obvicusly on their ony

L: Heather and Steve tried to make themselves
P: Heather and Sleve tried to make themselves

L: at home . Steve switched on Dan's
P: at home . Steve seritched on Pan's

L: powerful , world-wide radio and systematically
P: power ful , world-wide radio and systematicaly

L: turned the tuning knob through all the
P: turned the kning huob through al the

L: tuning points of the world's great radio
P: tunina points of the world's sreat ractio

L: They followed him to a city bus stop on Carling Avenue , where
P: They folowed him to a city bous stop on larling Areme , where

L: he waited . The bus stop was a deserted island on an empty street .
P: he waited . The lus stop was a deseted istand on a eupty stret .

L: But not for long , for soon pedestrians and cars flocked upon
P: But nt for long , for sompedections and cas flocked upon

L: the Avenue from its many tributary streets . It might have
P: the Areme frome its many trilumay strets . It might have

L: been a normal business-day bustle , except for two anomalies .
P: ben a normal buriners-day luotle , except for two anoualies .

L: First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone
P: First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone

L: walked , or drove , or waited as a person possessed of
P: waked , or drove , or waited as a person posesed of

L: a single all-exclusive purpose .
P: a single al-exclusive pupose .

L: After a long wait a bus appeared and they
P: After a long meit a hus apeared and they

L: followed the beaming Dan aboard , taking
P: folowed the learing frien abourd , taking

L: seats some rows behind him . Steve was
P: sect some rows behind him . Here was

L: beginning to find the stereotyped , flattish , happy
P: begirming to find the sterechyped . Hlulish , hupy

L: faces very disconcerting ; and looking at
P: fuces very discomcerting ; and loking at

L: Heather he found a welcome relief in her
P: Heather he found a welame reliet in her

L: relatively long doleful one
P: relutively lony eloleful one

L: Then he would go back to Plato for a final spell of
P: Then he would go back to Nato for a fhual spel of

L: real days and would return to New York in late
P: real days and would return to New Yok in tate

L: January or early February . Angelina might be a
P: fomnary or early Febmary . Angelina might be a

L: little sorry if we were not back for Christmas
P: litle somy if we were not back for Chuistmas

L: as arranged , but he consoled himself by
P: as aranged , but he cousled himset by

L: thinking that he and Angelina would have
P: thinking that he and Angelina would have

L: plenty of time together in the future . And
P: Planty of time together in the future . And

L: Heaven alone knew when , if ever , he would be
P: Heaven alone knew wohn , if ever , he would be

L: back on Moon again , and able to do
P: back on Mon again , and able to do

L: research at first hand into matters on which
P: research at first haund into maters on which

L: the future of everyone , including Angelina , depended ...
P: the future of everyone , including Auglina , depende .

L: The recovery of his balance was due to the
P: The recovery of his balance was due to the

L: fact that he was living , virtually without
P: fact that he was leving , veretualy without

L: expenses , with the people to whom Moke had
P: excrenses , with the people to whom Mokre had

L: sent him : little people who regarded him as
P: sent him. : litle people who regareded him as

L: lucky to have descended from such economic altitudes .
P: lucty to have descended from such economic altitudes .

L: Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the Secretariat
P: Yom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the secrolatiat

L: ( Stamp Department ) while Sally sulked at home .
P: I stamp pepartment ) while saly sulted at home .

L: They had been married for six years , but the
P: They had ben maried for six years , but the

L: salary raise , on the expectation of which they
P: salary raise , on the expectation of which they

L: had done so , had not materialised . " Do you
P: had done so , had not materialised . " 0 you

L: know , I had to send back our bedroom
P: know , I had to send back or bedrom

L: furniture in the second year , " she moaned . She
P: formitore in the secand year , I she meaned . She

L: had contacts in political circles , a school-
P: had contacts in political circles , a schol-

L: friend of hers having married Lester Peron ,
P: friend of hers having maried lester Peron ,

L: a Mocrat Senator with a seat on the
P: a Hecral Senator with a seat on the

L: ( literally ) all-powerful Rocket Release
P: Literaly ) al-powerful Rocket Release

L: Sometimes she took Harry around with her , but
P: Sometimes she tok Mary around wither , but

L: never her husband , a fact he accepted as inevitable . " I guess
P: never her husband , a fuct he acepted as invitable . ' I gues

L: Sally made a mistake about me , " he said one
P: Saly made a mistake abatme , " he said one

L: evening , when he had been left to cook his own meal .
P: evening , when he had ben left to cok his own meat .

L: All Sally's relations were 4makrodeb now , but Tom
P: Al suly's relations were tmakrodeds now , but Fom

L: was a Static Mib , the middle-income-bracket equivalent
P: was a static Mit , the mildle-income-brocket equiratent

L: All Aristotle was excited at the time , not by the prospect of the
P: Al Aristetle was exaited at the time , not by the prospet of the

L: U.S. President's visit , but by a great storm in the photo-
P: U.S. President's visil , but by a great strom in the plotes-

L: sphere of the sun . A matter which on Earth would hardly
P: phere of the sure . I mater which on Earth could tardly

L: penetrate beyond the minds of astronomers was of general
P: perehante beyond the miands of astreraners was of general

L: interest to the Mos , doubtless because their habitat is
P: intrest interest to be las , doubtles because their habviter is

L: not submerged beneath a deep natural atmosphere .
P: not suomergs beraeth a deap ratural atmosplere .

L: One wondered if this greater awareness of the physical cosmos might
P: The wondered it this greater awswenes of the pliyical caoms might

L: with time instil the reverence which , on Earth , nature inspires ,
P: with time instil the rexerence which , on Eith , natue impires ,

L: especially when one reflected that the rockets over which Mr. Peron's
P: expeily when one reflected that the rectels over which Mr.Perani's

L: Board presided had it in their power permanently to warp the
P: Gad presided had it in thir power parmanently to wap the

L: solar system . True enough , such ultimate weapons had not been
P: Solar spstem . Tine enough , much ultimate weapons had not ben

L: used in the last few wars , but it seemed very probable
P: used in the bat ta fews wars , but it semed vep probale

L: that they would be in the next one , Moon and her
P: that they would be in the Heat next one , Non and her

L: allies being more inferior than formerly to W.C.U. in the
P: alies being more interior than formety to bt. 2. 4. in the

L: weapons pronounced conventional .
P: Weapons provounced conventional

L: Lester was not home yet from his formidable
P: Lester was not home yet from his formidable

L: duties and his wife , in the manner of middle-brow
P: daties and his wife , in the maner of midadle-brow

L: wives , romanced about him in his absence . " Lester was a
P: Wiles , ramanced about himein his absence . " lester was a

L: country lawyer , and we were very small 4microdebs , weren't we ,
P: country lauper , and we were very smal A micradeds , wevent we ,

L: Sally " - here she had dropped her voice in homage to the
P: Saly - here she had chaped her vice in hamge to the

L: economic system : that was reverenced - " when he thought
P: economic system : that was reverened - " " when he theugt

L: we might get GO a bit better if he entered politics .
P: We might get 6,0 a bit beter if he entered palities .

L: Know how he did it ? He 's clever on
P: know how he did it ? Ho's cleces on

L: the mouth-organ . So when he visited some
P: the mouth-organ . So when he visited some

L: craterlet on Face ( ours is an agricultural
P: cratertet on Facelours is an agriculteral

L: Back-Face area ) the cry would go up ,
P: Back-Face area ) the cry would go up ,

L: as soon as he had spoken a few
P: as son as he had spoken a few

L: sentences of his speech : ' Cut the
P: sentences of his spech . ' Cut the

L: politics , Lester , give us something on
P: politics , lester , give us something on

L: But since starting salaries would depend on grade A
P: But since starting salarios would depand on goade o

L: or B in the finals next May , and since mating
P: or 8 in the finals next May , and since mating

L: prospects would depend upon salaries , scholarship for
P: prospects would depend upon salarins , scholarshin for

L: these fine young people was closely geared to
P: these fime young people was olosely geared to

L: economic and biological ends which , essentially ,
P: economic and bilogical ends w which , esentialy ,

L: were really means . So , seeing them revolve in
P: Were realy means . So , seding them readver in

L: circles , Harry had the feeling that Moke ( or what
P: circles , Mary had the fefing that Noke Corwhaten

L: Moke consciously or unconsciously symbolised , any-
P: Nole cousciously ox unconscinbly symalised , any-

L: way in Harry's mind ) had these splendid young
P: way in Mary's mind ) had these splendid young

L: people by the short hairs , and was diverting them ...
P: people by the stbrt hairs , and was directing them .

L: That 's how he got the votes , that 's how
P: That 's how he got the votes , that 's how

L: we came through to 4makrodeb status and
P: We came through to Umatrodebs status and

L: got all these lovely things " - she waved a
P: got al these tovely things ' - she waved a

L: plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc :
P: plump hand towards her grand pianos , etoi

L: at the same time a door banged - " but don't
P: at the same time a dor banged - " but don't

L: say a word about it , Lester wants his
P: say a word about it , lester wants his

L: mouth-organ to be forgotten now . The time
P: mouth-organ to be forgothen now . The time

L: has come for him to be taken seriously
P: has come for him to be taken seriously

L: Peron entered , a large man , who had once been
P: Peror extered , a lorey man , who had once ben

L: handsome but was now seedy-looking , a sufferer
P: handsome but was nen sedy-loking , a sotferer

L: from stomach-ulcers . In the Back-Face tradition he
P: from stomach-wlers . In the Back-Face tadition he

L: wore , and kept on indoors , a fifty gallon hat . Harry was
P: more , and kept on indors , a fifty galen hat .Hery was

L: prepared for something unpleasant , for this was
P: prepared for something impleasant , for this was

L: the Senator who had annoyed the United States
P: the senator who had anoyed the United States

L: by bragging how he had once won a trick from
P: by broging hom he had once won a trick from

L: W.C.U. by threatening to loose off one of his
P: N.C. V. by threatesing to lose of one of his

L: rockets ( an admission which would scarcely help
P: rockets l an admision which would scarcely help

L: bluff to succeed the next time ) and , lately , by
P: tluf to soced the next time fand , lately , by

L: saying that if Mo land-troops had to come to the aid
P: saying that if Moland-trops had to come to the said

L: of the O.G.O. contingent in the Panama region ,
P: ofthe 2 B eretised in the tose resis

L: But privately he turned out to be as friendly as
P: But privately he turned out to be as friendly as

L: Mr. Wise the tube manufacturer , to have the same adolescent
P: Mr. Wis the tube manitacturer , to have the came abtolesent

L: openness and freshness , though perhaps not the same
P: openros and Frachnes , though perhaps not the samre

L: maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer
P: maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer

L: by training , and suspected that the points he made
P: by training , and suspected that the points he made

L: so sharply in international politics were as abstract
P: so sharply in international politics evere as abstract

L: to him as those a lawyer makes in a court
P: to him as those a lawper makes in a court

L: The motive would be the same in both cases , to
P: The motive would be the same in both cases , to

L: serve this home of his , in which his heart lay .
P: serve this home of his , in which his heart lay .

L: Here the rocket man's charm was disarming . Yet
P: Here the roclet man's charm was disarming . Yet

L: when the time came to leave , Harry felt as de-
P: when the time came to leave , Hary felt as de-

L: pressed as when he left Mrs. Halliday's office ,
P: presed as when he left Mrs. Haliday's ofice ,

L: exactly a month ago . If even Mo statesmen only
P: exactly a month ago . If even No statemen only

L: did what they had to do to get GO on an expan-
P: did what they had to do to get 60 on an expan-

L: ding scale , and left the sum-total of their actions ,
P: ding scate , and left the sum-tofal of their actions ,

L: and their lunar and earthly repercussions , to luck
P: and their hunar and earthly repercusions , to luck

L: ( or to Moke ) , there was a vacuum where there should
P: Cor to Moke ) , there was a vacum where there should

L: be a centre of trust , responsible for the maintenance
P: be a centre of trust , responsible for the maintenance

L: The political life of Aristotle looked more and more
P: The political like of dritotle loked more and more

L: like a masquerade of business interests in dis-
P: libe a masquerade of Businers interests in di-

L: guise which , far from attracting the allegiance
P: quise which , far from atracting the alegiance

L: of free men everywhere , could only repel them .
P: of fre men everywhere , could only repel them .

L: Then what of the cultural life ? Did this per-
P: Then what of the cultural life ? Bid this per-

L: haps nurture a genuinely civilizing impulse
P: haps nurture a genminely civilizing impule

L: which might in time become social fact
P: which might in time Decome social fact

L: and counteract the obsession with economics
P: and counteract the obsesion with economics

L: which had grown up during the Moon's
P: which had grown up during the Mown's

L: At the centre of each circle stood personnel
P: At the centre of each cirle stod persomnel

L: managers of corporations , together with professors
P: manages of corporations , together with profors

L: and their filing clerks . The students had
P: and their filing clostes . The studets had

L: bought their college education forward and
P: bought thair colege oducation . forward and

L: were now being bought forward in their
P: were now being bought forward in the 's

L: turn . By comparing personal appearances
P: them . By camparing personal apearances

L: with university records , the agents of the
P: wnith univesity records , the agents of the

L: businesses would pick on young men
P: busineses would puck an young men

L: and women who interested them , and contracts
P: and women who intrested them , ald contract ,

L: would be initialled at the end of
P: would be initialed at the end of

L: Stepping out in their white shorts , they looked glad enough
P: steping out in their white shorts , they Cokad enough

L: to be diverted , however , with the single exception of one
P: to be divestral , honeres , with the gugle exception of owen

L: worried little man-student who kept getting out of
P: varical litle man-student who lept goting out of

L: step . He looked as if nothing Moke and his
P: stays . He lokol as if nothing woke and his

L: minions could do to him would ever make him
P: minions conlol alo to him wold was make him

L: GO ; but the reason probably lay in elementary
P: O0 ; but the reasom probably lay inclomastary

L: neurosis and not in some eruption from those
P: mearasis and not in soma exuption from those

L: deeper layers in the human psyche which are
P: oleagear layars in the human psychor which on

L: So once again the metaphysics were depressing ,
P: So once again the metaphysics were depresing ,

L: and in absolute contrast to the physical display .
P: and in absolute controst to the physical display .

L: Mos have an un-American love of parades , and
P: Mos have an un-American love of parades , and

L: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they
P: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they

L: had to get to pay off their college bills , were naturally
P: had to get of their colge bils , were naturaly

L: putting their best foot forward .
P: puting their best fot forward .

L: ' Something 's up , ' said Lord Undertone ,
P: " Something's up , " said Lord Undertone ,

L: carefully casual . ' The servants are all on
P: carefuly casual . " The servents are al on

L: edge ... did you notice ? And the mules
P: edge . did you notice ? And the nules

L: didn't seem to want to get off the raft . '
P: didn't sem to want to get of the reft . "

L: He peered as it were into the dark secrets
P: He pered as it were into the dark secrets

L: of the jungle . ' Think there 's Indians
P: of the jungle . " Think there's Indiaus

L: about ? ' It was most certainly an eerie
P: about ? " It was most certainly an erie

L: night , exceptionally brilliant and strange ,
P: night , exceptionaly brilient and strange ,

L: for in the proximity of the mountains ,
P: for in the procinity of the montains ,

L: whose presence I could almost smell ,
P: whose presence I could almost smel ,

L: ' Impressive , ' Lord Undertone said , gazing reverently
P: impresive , Lord Ondertone said , gasing reverently

L: on the cosmic handiwork . ' All those stars . But I 'm
P: on the cosmic handiwork . ' Al those stars . But I 'in

L: a bit earthbound tonight , Trout . I 've got a queer
P: a bit earthbourd tonight , Trot . I 've got a quer

L: feeling , like I always get when something
P: feling , like I always get when something

L: sensational 's going to happen . There 's things lurking
P: sesational's going to hapen . There's bings lurking

L: if you ask me . Might be jaguar , might be ...
P: it your ask ne . hight be jagorar , might be .

L: Hope I die kind of composed , Trout . I mean you can't
P: Hope I dis kind of composed , Tront . I mean you can't

L: imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking ,
P: imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking

L: no matter how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a
P: no mater hows bad it felt , the fire you know , or a

L: lion munching , or arrows where it hurts most . Or
P: Cion muching , or arows where it hurts most . Or

L: can you . Look over there . ' He pointed to the
P: can you lok over there . " He pointed to the

L: shadows beyond the river . ' Something moved . '
P: sholous beyond the ricer . ' something moved . '

L: ' Bottle-Foot , my lord . ' ' Bottle-Foot ? ' His lordship
P: Batle-Fot , my lord . " Batle Feat ? '" His lardship

L: may have thought I had become unbalanced
P: may have thought I had become unbalaned

L: through fear . ' A character Mr Gilberto mentioned
P: through fear . ' A character Mr filberto mentioned

L: to other day , my lord . A being of whom
P: to oftr other day , mny lad . A being of whom

L: the forest Indians are said to be mortally
P: that fasest Iudians are said to be mostaly

L: afraid , with a hoof shaped like the heel
P: afraid , with a frosf shaped like the hel

L: of a bottle . If your lordship will excuse me
P: of a botle . If your lardship wil exense me

L: Small , repulsive creatures they were ,
P: Smal , repulsive creatures they were ,

L: with black , matted hair and a striking
P: with black , mated hair and striking

L: resemblance to the shrunk heads we had
P: resemblance to the shrunk heads we had

L: gazed at recently ; and I have no
P: garsed at recently ; and I heve no

L: hesitation in saying that they would have
P: hasitation in saying that they would have

L: made an end of us but for an intervention
P: made an end of us but for an intervention

L: so unexpected , so unusual , that only the
P: so unexpected , so mnusual , that anbe the

L: necessity of rounding my narrative
P: necesity of rounding my worative

L: compels me to mention it .
P: campels me to metion it .

L: I had a distinct impression that the
P: I hada distinct impresion that the

L: hut had recently been cleaned and
P: but had recently ben cleaned and

L: prepared for visitors . Mrs Caine said
P: prepared for visitors . Mrs Conine said

L: we were to go no further unless and
P: he were to go no further inles and

L: until we were sent for , confirming
P: intil we were sent for , confirning

L: another impression that became more
P: another impesion that became more

L: and more definite , namely , that
P: and more definite , namly , that

L: she was in touch with an invi-
P: she was in tauch with an invi-

L: sible source of authority .
P: gible sace of autherity .

L: Sally and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely
P: Saly and of course Mrs eptimus , for surely

L: Mr Septimus stood in the same case as
P: Mr Septimus stod in the same case as

L: myself ? But was it so ? I allowed myself
P: myself ? But was it so ? I alowed myself

L: to entertain for an instant the idea , the
P: to entertain for an instant the idea , the

L: strange , the unwelcome , the almost
P: o strange , the eiwelcome , the amost

L: inconceivable idea , that Ariadne's arrival
P: inconveniancale idea , hat Aricdue's arival

L: would be inopportune ; and with the idea came
P: would be inoporture , and with the idea come

L: a somewhat vulgar impulse , which I refused ,
P: a somewhat valgar impule , # which I refused ,

L: to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs
P: to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs

L: Caine too and Mr Gilberto who would ...
P: Caine to and Mr Gilberts who would .

L: But all three were to the casual
P: But al thre were to the casual

L: observation I permitted myself unruffled ;
P: observation I permited my self unrufled ;

L: Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very
P: Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very

L: thoughtful , but that was his habit . Indeed
P: thoughtful , but that was his habit . Inded

L: we were all invaded by a most tranquil
P: we were al invaded by a most tranguil

L: mood . Even the Indian servants relaxed , knowing ,
P: mod . Even the Indian sevents relased , knowing ,

L: so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and
P: so Mr Gilberts told us , that the wild and

L: savage tribes never approached this region : at
P: sarage tmbes never aproached this region : at

L: any rate they remained with us , perhaps
P: any rate hey remained with us , perhaps

L: for such protection as our presence , or Mrs
P: for such proteation as our presence , or Mrs

L: But after what Mrs Caine had said it was never
P: But after what Mrs cone dad sraid it was never

L: far from our minds that at any moment we were
P: far from au minds reat at any mament we were

L: to receive a summons . I could see that Mr Septimus
P: to receive a sumons . I caned se that thr septims

L: was impatient for it . This afternoon , then , we climbed
P: was impatient far it . This aftermaon , ten , we cened

L: a promontory , a mass of clean rock crowned with
P: a pramentary , a mans of cean roce cransned with

L: trees and bushes , that stood well out over the lake .
P: tres and euseres , that stod we out ower the eace .

L: NO ONE has ever satisfactorily explained how a
P: NOVE has wir satisfuctuvily axplamed how a

L: single-decker Welsh bus could have got
P: singl-cticker Walsh hus could hovr yot i tsulf

L: itself into orbit . Shooting up over the pass a bit
P: into oubut . Shoting up ovr the pas a but

L: too carefree , and becoming airborne ?
P: to caurfris , and becoming alibounr ! .

L: Caught by a sudden gust of wind ? A
P: Cought bya suden gust of mind ? A

L: combination of the two ? No one seems
P: combination of the thro ? No onr sirms

L: to know . But the fact remains that get
P: to know . But the fact vimains that git

L: itself into orbit it did .
P: itelf in to o bout it o id.

L: And a fine old fuss there was about it , too .
P: And a fine ofd fus thir was about it , tos

L: Here are the known facts . On 10th July ,
P: tine an the hown fucks . On 1oth Jrly ,

L: the bus , the 2.20 from Dinas to Llangrwl ,
P: the bus , the 2.20 from Dinas to Vlangrasl ,

L: left Dinas at two-thirty-five as usual .
P: laft Pines at two- thirty fir- as usual .

L: Aboard , apart from the crew , were Mrs. Megan
P: Ahord , aport from the craw , were Mrs. Migan

L: Thomas and her five-year-old son Cadwallader ;
P: Thomas and his fir-year-old son Cadmuladv ;

L: pretty little Morfydd Owen ; Mr. Stanley Hayball
P: quity litle Mr. Fyd Owin ; Mr. Stunky Mnybal

L: and Miss Ethel Yates , hikers from
P: and 1h0 . Mis Ethl Yatrs , hilvevs from

L: Birmingham ; Price the Provisions ; and the
P: Buminghum ; Price th Provisions ; and the

L: Yes , the bus set out from Dinas . So much
P: Tes , the bis set out from Dies . So much

L: is established . Ifor Huw Evans , Propr. ,
P: is established . Yfor Hew Evans , Propr. ,

L: watched it go from the windows of the
P: watchid it go from the windons of the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. Very interested ,
P: Dinas Notor Amibrs (o . Very intrustid ,

L: Ifor was . For there was his garage hand ,
P: for was . For thor was his gamer hand ,

L: Dai Pugh , taking a tearful farewell of
P: Dai Rugh , taking a tearful farimal of

L: Morfydd Owen . Morfydd , who had until
P: Morty od Onia . Mortyold , who had until

L: recently been Ifor's typist , but was now
P: recently bum Lfor's typist , hut was now

L: returning to her home town as a
P: uitouning to his home town as a

L: fully-fledged schoolteacher .
P: tuly - Hodyed scholtrucher .

L: " But I 'm only going fifteen miles away , "
P: " But I 'm onty going fifliem niles away , '

L: Morfydd was saying . " Not the end of
P: Mortyeld was sayiny . '" Nut the ind of

L: the world , is it ? " " For me it is , " Dai
P: the world , is it ? " " for ms it is , " Dui

L: said wretchedly , wiping his hands on his
P: said witch , dly , wiping his hards on his

L: overalls preparatory to a last embrace . " You
P: ourals preparctory to a last imnbrack . " " Yo .

L: will not be remembering a mere garage
P: mil not bo rmembering umor garays

L: hand when you are lording it over
P: hand whon you or lording it onr

L: the Mixed Infants of Llangrwl . "
P: the Mirad Infents of Clongun ! . "

L: " Silly boy , " said Morfydd . Though she
P: " Sily hoy , ' said Mort , 1d . Though shi

L: could not help wondering whether , now she
P: could not help wondiring whither , now she

L: had qualified as a schoolteacher , poor
P: had qualified as a scholtcaches , poy

L: little Dai was quite the man for her .
P: liltle Dair was quite the man for har .

L: A nice boy of course . But perhaps in the
P: Anicr boy of cocrse . Bit prshaps in the

L: new world she was entering there might
P: hin would she was intering there might

L: be boys equally nice , and with far more
P: bor boys eqcaly nice , and with for mon

L: to offer . The conductor rang his bell .
P: to ofer . The condictor rany his bil .

L: " Good-bye , Dai , " said Morfydd , smiling from the bottom step .
P: " god - tye , siai , " said Holyded , smiling from the botom step .

L: " Good-bye , Morfydd . " He sought to enfold her in his arms . But he was too late .
P: " god- by . Hetold , '" Hoe sought tor enfold her in his arms , but hie us tor lots ,

L: She was already up the bus steps , and the bus was away . And Morfydd Owen
P: Ts was deady up the his staps , and the has was asay . And Hetold then

L: waving , unkissed , from the window . And Dai , on the pavement , knowing in his
P: marong , undined , from the winder , And dai , on the parmient , fimong in his

L: heart that Morfydd was leaving him as surely as she was leaving Dinas .
P: teart that Holgld was beawing hwin as surly an the was beving durmis ,

L: So the bus set out for Llangrwl . But it never reached there ! Somewhere ,
P: So tho his not out for flangral . But it wiart maded that ! Pomerwher ,

L: on those fifteen miles of mountain roads , it disappeared from the earthly
P: on those fiften mils of montain woads , it disapened from the eathly

L: scene . The first intimation that all was not well came when a
P: were . She first inturmation that al was not wel wome when a

L: Mr. Isaiah Roberts , landlord of The Traveller's Joy , rang up the
P: Mr. Inich Rolerts , handlod of the Sraseler's fay , mary up the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. to ask what had happened to their
P: diesis Nor Amilas 6o , to ask shat had hapened to their

L: " Left here all right , " said Ifor . " Two-thirty-five , on the dot . " " It 's
P: ift fere al right , ' said far . '" Sur . thily-fire , onthe dit , " It 's

L: supposed to leave at two-twenty . " " Who says so ? " " Your timetable . "
P: suposed to bese at two-trusty . " " Whihe mays o ? " your trmietatle , '

L: " Don't want to take too much notice of those old timetables , " Ifor said ,
P: " somn't wot to tade formark motice of this old trmetales , ' formid ,

L: reasonably . " Start running punctual and where are you ? People get
P: resonaly . ' Ihat numing gunatual and thet are you ? Deople get

L: left behind , isn't it ? Very exasperating for one and all . "
P: Roft #rig Whind , in it it ! bery exesperatary for om aind al . "

L: " And what are you going to do about it ? " Tendentious , Mr. Roberts sounded .
P: ' And that an you gany to to dout it ! ' Sundortan , Mr. Rderts sanded .

L: " What do you want me to do ? Send out a sheriff's posse , is it ? " No sense
P: ' What 4er yer ment mo to do ) Sard aut a Shailf 's prose , init ? ' Io sas

L: of humour , that Isaiah . He banged down the receiver . Very uncivil . Dropped
P: o humon , that tsaich . He langed bain the rearis , bey meind , shagyed

L: the mask , now , Ifor did . " Dai Pugh , " he bellowed . " Leap on your bicycle
P: He mork , naw , for did . " duiai figh . Ps lilaed , " deap on your higle

L: and scour the countryside between here and The Traveller's Joy .
P: and neaus the countrysids betwern fore and the Sravelai's fay ,

L: The two-twenty to Llangrwl has failed to
P: The twotwenty to Clangral has failed to

L: complete her mission . " Paled , did Dai . For the
P: Complete her mision . " Paled , did Dai . For the

L: two-twenty carried , for him , a cargo more
P: to-twenty cunried , for him , a congo more

L: precious than jewels . Though Mofydd Owen
P: precions than jevels . Though Hofyold Oven

L: was , as he feared , departed out of his life ,
P: was , as he feared , depented out of his life ,

L: he still loved her dearly . Already , even
P: he stil loved her dearly . Alseady , even

L: as with trembling fingers he fastened his
P: as with trembling fingers he fantened his

L: trouser clips , he was seeing her lying in
P: trouser clips , he was seling her lying in

L: some dreadful ravine , or beset by
P: some dreadful sowine , or beset by

L: robbers , or being whisked off to Emergency
P: robers , or being whished of to Emergency

L: But even his imagination , luckily for him ,
P: But even his imagination , luckily for him ,

L: did not visualise the awful truth - that
P: did not visualise the auful truth - that

L: Morfyyd Owen was already qualifying for
P: Mortyd Oven was alseady qualifying for

L: the title of " First Woman to Enter Space . "
P: the title of " First Noman to Enter Space . "

L: " Where are we going , Mam ? " inquired little
P: " Where one we going , Mamil " inquired litle

L: Cadwallader when his child mind grasped
P: Ladvalader when his child mind grasped

L: the fact that the green earth was falling
P: the fact that the gren eanth was failing

L: away at a rate of knots .
P: away at a rate of knots .

L: Where indeed ? Megan Thomas spoke sharply
P: Where inded ? Megan Thonas spoke sharply

L: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .
P: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .

L: But nonplussed , the conductor was . A
P: But mon plused , the conductor was . I

L: good man , mind ; knew his job . But out of
P: god man , mind ; knew his jols . But out of

L: depth in this particular instance . Fingered
P: depth in this particular instance . Fingesed

L: his ticket-punch nervously . Peered out of
P: his ticket-punch overvous ly . Pered out of

L: the window . Went and consulted the driver .
P: the window . Went and consulted the driver .

L: " Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwallader .
P: " Where are we going ? ' he echoed Cadvalader .

L: " Damned if I know , boy , " said the driver .
P: Daned if I know , boy , ' said the driver .

L: " But something very untoward has
P: " But something very untoward has

L: happened , if you ask me . "
P: bapened , it you ask me . "

L: Immersed in the Dinas Advertiser , was the
P: Imersed in the Dias Pdvertiser , was the

L: Rev. Edwards . Now he put down his paper ,
P: Rer. Edwards . Naw he put down his paper ,

L: folded it , and glanced idly out of the
P: tolded it , and glanced idly out of the

L: window . Looked again , eyes starting from
P: window . Loked again , eyes starting fromn

L: his head . " God bless my immortal soul , "
P: his head . " God bles my imontal sot , "

L: he cried . " Never mind your immortal
P: hecried . " Never mind your imortal

L: soul , " said Megan Thomas tartly .
P: sod , ' said Mogan Thomas tartly .

L: " Here we are traversing the heavens at the
P: " Here we are travensing the heavens at the

L: very moment when we should be
P: very moment when we should be

L: running into Llangrwl bus station .
P: runing into Clangral lous station .

L: And no one doing the first thing about
P: And no ome doing the first thing about

L: it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you
P: it . ' Stung , the conductor was . " What you

L: expect me to do ? " he inquired , bitter .
P: expect me to do ! " ho inquined , biter .

L: " Radio Flying Control at London Airport ,
P: " Radio Flycing Contrd at London Dixport ,

L: is it ? " " Mutual recriminations will get
P: is it ? " " Mutual recriminations wil get

L: us nowhere , " boomed the Rev. Edwards .
P: us howhere , ' bomned the Row. Edwards .

L: " It 's all very well , " commented
P: " It 's al very wel , ' comented

L: Mr. Hayball from the back seat .
P: Mr. Haybal from the back seat .

L: " But Eth and me wanted to be
P: " But Ethe and me wanted to be

L: at the Youth Hostel before dark . "
P: at the Youth Hestel befere dash . '

L: Morfydd Owen was silent . But she
P: Horkyded Olven was silent . But she

L: looked down at the fast-disappearing
P: lohed down at the fart-disapearing

L: earth , and it seemed to her that she
P: earth , and it remed to her that whe

L: would never see her Dai again . And
P: would never re hier Rai again . And

L: though half an hour ago she had
P: though half an hoer ago she had

L: regarded this possibility with
P: regarded this posibility with

L: fortitude , it now filled her with
P: portitude , it now filed her with

L: dismay . Quietly she began to
P: dismay . Ouietly whe began to

L: Dai , meanwhile , was pedalling
P: Dai , meanwhile , was pelaling

L: furiously on the road . Not a sign of
P: furiously on the road . Not a nign of

L: the bus . He passed The Traveller's
P: the bus . He pared The Traveler's

L: Joy . At last he caught up Mr. Roberts ,
P: Joy . At last he cought up Mr. Roberts ,

L: walking very dogged towards Llangrwl .
P: walking very doged towards langret .

L: " Afternoon , Mr. Roberts , " he called , polite ,
P: " Aftermon , Mr. Roberls , " he caled , polite ,

L: as he shot past . His spirits were rising .
P: as he shot part . His spirits were rining .

L: He had seen no sign of an accident .
P: Hhe had sen no sign of an acident .

L: Therefore Mr. Roberts must have been mistaken .
P: Therefore Mr. Roberts ment have benmintaken .

L: He would find the bus safe and sound in
P: He would find the bes rafe and round in

L: Llangrwl , and his dear Morfydd quietly
P: Mlangrel , and his dear Mortyd quietly

L: But disappointment awaited him . A
P: But disapointment auraited him . I

L: restive queue of people in the bus station ,
P: rentive queue of people in the bus ntation ,

L: waiting to be transported to Dinas . And
P: waiting to be transported to Dimas . And

L: when he went to Morfydd's house , all
P: when hervent to Hortyeld's house , al

L: he found was Morfydd's mam , working
P: he found was torfyd is man , working

L: herself up proper ... Getting dark , now .
P: herself up proper . Beting dork , now .

L: The conductor switched on the lights .
P: The conductor witched on the lights .

L: The beleaguered passengers peered out of
P: The beleagured pasengers pered out of

L: the windows . Little to be seen , only a
P: the windows , Ritle to besen , only a

L: few lone stars , and the distant earth
P: few tone stars , and the distant earth

L: brooding in her shroud of mist .
P: broding in her shroud of minst .

L: Megan Thomas sat tight-lipped , nursing
P: Nugar Thomas nat kight-liped , muning

L: the sleeping Cadwallader . Driver and
P: the sleping ladwalader . Ariver and

L: conductor peered ahead into nothingness .
P: conductor peared atwad into mothingners .

L: On the back seat Stan Hayball embraced
P: On the back neat Stan Reghal embraced

L: his Eth . Morfydd thought of Dai . The
P: his Ch. Horyd thought of Nai . The

L: Rev. Edwards , standing at the front ,
P: Mer. Edwards , ntanding at the frent ,

L: looked at his forlorn flock . " What
P: loked at his forlorn flock . ' What

L: about a verse or two of Cwm Rhondda ? "
P: about a werse or two of Lasn Rhonda ? "

L: he suggested hopefully .
P: she rugnted hopefuly .

L: They looked at him , sullen . His heart
P: They loked athim , selen . His heart

L: sank . If the Welsh found the situation
P: ranh . If the Welish found the rituation

L: too desperate for singing , then the
P: to demporate for singing , then the

L: situation , he realised , must be desperate
P: nituation , he realined , munt be desperate

L: indeed . But suddenly they were roused
P: inded . But rudenly they were roused

L: from their lethargy . Something was
P: from ble-letleagay , Canredbing sas

L: approaching , faster , faster , a tearing
P: aproaching , fanter , fanter , a tearing

L: hurrying blur that was past and gone
P: hurying boler that was part and gone

L: in a moment , followed by a great
P: in a moment , folowed by a great

L: rush of sound . They waved frantically .
P: reuh of round . They waved framlicaly .

L: But the jet aircraft was already miles away ,
P: But the jet aircmft was already miles away ,

L: swinging down to the darkening earth . " It
P: swinging down to the doulening earth . ' It

L: passed me at fifty thousand feet , sir . It was
P: pused me at fifty thousand fet , six . It was

L: climbing steadily . " Group Captain Llewelyn Jones , Officer
P: climbing steadily . ' Group Captain Llewelgn Joner , oficer

L: Commanding R.A.F. Station , Dinas , looked keenly at the
P: Comanding R. M. Station , Dins , loked healy at the

L: Flying Officer who had burst so unceremoniously into his
P: Flying oficar who had bust so uneremanionsly into his

L: office . " And what did it look like , Broughtons ? Some
P: ofice . " And what did it lod like , broughtons ! Some

L: Flying Officer Broughtons shuffled his feet .
P: Flying Oficar broughtons shafled his fet

L: " Well , actually , sir , it looked like - like a bus .
P: " Wel , actualy , six , it loked like - like a bus .

L: A single-decker , " he elaborated . Daggers , the
P: It simgle-decdear , ' he elaborated . Dagers , the

L: Group Captain looked . " Broughtons , " he said silkily .
P: Growp Captain loked . " Broughtons , ' he said silfily .

L: " Didn't they teach you at Cranwell that buses are
P: ' Didn't they teach gou at Cvonwel that buses are

L: earth-bound creatures ? Aeroplanes fly , Broughtons .
P: earth-bound ereatures ! . Hevoplans fly , broughtors

L: Buses crawl . " Very pale , Broughtons was . But
P: Pases craul . " Way pale , broughtons was . But

L: determined . " It was a bus , sir .
P: datrmined It was a bus , Six

L: They 'd got the lights on . There were people inside .
P: thegid got the lights on . There were perople inside

L: Waving . " Like gimlets , the Station Commander's eyes .
P: Waving . " like gimlts , the Station Comande's eges .

L: " Did you see the indicator board ? " " Yes , sir . " " And
P: " Bud you se the indicatar bord ? " " Yes , six . " " Aad

L: what did it say ? Mystery Tour ? " Oh , very caustic , that
P: What did it say ! Mystery Tour ! " Ol , wry coustic , that

L: Group Captain . But Broughtons stood his ground . " No ,
P: Cras Captain . But broughtoms stod his ground . " No ,

L: sir . It said Llangrwl . " Llewelyn Jones sat
P: six . It simpls said Clangeal . " Llevelgn Jones sut

L: back in his chair . " I see . So you met a bus at
P: back in his chain . " I se . So you met a sus at

L: All lit up . Full of people waving as you went past . "
P: Al lit up . Ful of pople waving as your went past . '

L: Suddenly he crouched forward . " Broughtons , if I thought
P: Sudenly he crovched found . " Broughtons , if I thought

L: there were anything in Queen's Regulations to cover this ,
P: there were anything in Aluens Regerlations to corn this ,

L: I 'd have you court-martialled . But I know there
P: I 'd have you court-montialed . But I Rnow there

L: isn't , " he ended sadly . " I tried to read the
P: isnit , " he ended sadly . ' I tried to read the

L: registration number , sir . But it was getting dark . "
P: registration number , six . but it was geting dask . "

L: He waited . But his commanding officer appeared to
P: the vaited . But his comanding ofien apeared to

L: " Then we are saved , " cried the Rev. Edwards .
P: " Than we are saved , ' cried the Rew. indwards .

L: Shyly , Morfydd Owen produced a block of
P: Angly , Mortyold Oueh prodeced a blosd of

L: He saluted , and left the presence , very crestfallen ...
P: He salated , and left the presence , very crestalen . .

L: Time passed . The bus climbed , and went quietly
P: Time pased . The bus climbed , and went quietly

L: into orbit . Time passed . The Rev. Edwards' pulpit
P: into orbit . Time parsed . The Rer. Edwards ' pupit

L: remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai
P: remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai

L: Pugh . How could they be otherwise , when his
P: Bugh . Yow could they be othermise , when his

L: beloved was circling the Poles at three-and-a-
P: beloved was circling the Poles at thre-and-a-

L: quarter-hour intervals , regular as clockwork ?
P: quarter-hour intepvals , regalar as clockwork ! .

L: Time passed . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan
P: Time pased . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan

L: Thomas , isn't it , " as though they didn't really think
P: Thomas , isn't it , " as though they didn't realy think

L: it was a pity at all ; as , indeed , they didn't .
P: it was a pity at al ; as , inded , they didn't .

L: LOCAL BUS DISAPPEARS announced the
P: HOCOCAL BUS DISADPEARS anounced the

L: Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored
P: Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored

L: the whole affair . Ifor Evans reported his loss
P: the whole afair . Ffor Evans poported his los

L: to the police . But they only tut-tutted . " Lost
P: to the police . But they only tutated . " Lost

L: a bus , is it . Very careless . " That was their
P: a bas , is it . Very careles . " That was their

L: attitude . Now if there 'd been a good old accident ,
P: altitude . Now if there'd ben a god old acident ,

L: they could have measured up the road and
P: they could have measured up the road and

L: But losing a bus ! People were always losing
P: But losing a bus ! People were always losing

L: things . You 'd be surprised , they said . So it
P: things . You'd be sarprised , they said . So it

L: seemed , for a time , that the whole affair would
P: semed , for a time , that the whole afair would

L: be written off as one of those unexplained
P: be writen of as one of those unerplained

L: mysteries , like the Marie Celeste . Then things
P: mysteries , like the Marie Celeste . Then things

L: began to happen ... But what about the voyagers ?
P: began to hapen . . But what about the royagers .

L: Well , the Rev. Edwards had taken command . " Our
P: Wel , the Ner. Edwards had taken comand . " Our

L: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to
P: position , " he said , ' is somewhat amalogous to

L: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now
P: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now

L: what does such a person do ? He signals
P: what does such a person do ! He signals

L: his position by lighting bonfires or hoisting a
P: his position by lighting bonfires or hoisting a

L: flag on a palm tree . And he tries to ensure
P: Plan on a palm tre . And he frivs to ensure

L: " Can't go lighting bonfires on this bus , "
P: " C an't go lighting bonfires on this bus , '

L: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the
P: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the

L: Company's Regulations . " " Of course not , " agreed
P: Company's Regulations . " Of course not , " agred

L: the minister . " No , we have another way of signalling
P: the minister . " No , we have another way of signaling

L: our position . The driver must sound his horn
P: our position . The driver must sound his horm

L: continuously . " Gave him a look , the driver did .
P: continously . " Gare him a lok , the driver did .

L: " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely .
P: " Where you think we are ? " he askred rudely .

L: " Do as I say , driver . " Very stern , the reverend
P: " Do of I ray , driver . " Very stem , the reverend

L: gentleman was . So the driver peep-peeped as
P: gentleman was . So the driver pep-peped as

L: through empty space . " Thank you , " the Rev.
P: through emply space . " Thank you , " the Per.

L: Edwards said courteously . " Secondly , we must
P: Edwards said courtously . " Scondly , we must

L: pool and ration our supplies of food , if any . "
P: prol and ration our suplies of fod , if any . "

L: He looked at Price the Provisions , who was nursing
P: He lorked at Price the Provisims , who was muning

L: " Now , who has any food ? " he asked hopefully .
P: " Now , who has any fod ! ' he asked hopefuly .

L: Stared back did Price the Provisions , unwinking .
P: Stared back did Prie the Pronisianf unuiling .

L: " Mr. Price , I think you may be able to help us here , "
P: " Mr. Pice , I thire you may be able to help us tre ;

L: said the Rev. Edwards . Price shook his head .
P: said the Per. Edwards . Price shot his head .

L: " Intended for Plas Newydd , this lot is . Paid for ,
P: " Intended for Play Wewyold , this lot is . Faid for ,

L: too . " He folded his arms protectively over the basket .
P: to . " He folded his ams protectively over the basket .

L: Mutinous dog , thought the Rev. Edwards , who hadn't
P: vurinons doy , thought the Mer. Elwards , who hadni't

L: enjoyed himself so much since reading Treasure
P: enjoyed himself no much since reading Treasmre

L: Island . " What have you got in that basket , Price ? "
P: islund . " What have you got in that bastal , Price ? "

L: he roared . Quelled , Mr. Price pulled out a grocery
P: he roared . Cueled , Mr. Price puled out a grovery

L: list , pushed his glasses up on his nose , and
P: list , pushed his glaseld up on his more , and

L: began to read . " Six loaves , four pounds butter ,
P: beyan to read . ' Sirx loanes , four pounds buthr ,

L: two pounds marge , one tin pineapple , one York ham . "
P: two founds marge , one tim pineaple , one Forl ham . "

L: Bertram's face was grim . " You think it was the Snort ,
P: Sertran's frce was grim . " You think it was the smost ,

L: don't you ? " John gave a short laugh . " I did , " he
P: don't you ? ' Joln gave a short lange . " Ioid , ' he

L: said ; " but I 'd better stop thinking that now .
P: said ; ' but I 'd beter stop thinking that mow .

L: Pericles is fitted with an identically similar one . "
P: Puricls in fiting with an identicaly similar ons . "

L: " So there you are , my dear . " Peggy 's eyes filled
P: ' To there you are , my dear . " Pegy's eyes filed

L: with tears . " It 's so unfair , " she said .
P: with tears . ' I's sounfair , ' she said .

L: " That little beast Robbie Munyard spent six
P: " That litle beast Robic then yard opent six

L: months ashore while Pericles was refitting in the
P: months ashore while Periels was refiting in the

L: dockyard and now that she 's ready for sea he goes
P: dockyard and now that she's ready for rea he goep

L: sick . Just because he 's an Honourable he can do
P: sicde . Just because he's an Honourable he can do

L: what he likes . Anyway , why pick on you to succeed
P: what he liter . Anyway , why picl on you to suced

L: him ? " John didn't answer . There was no point
P: him ? " goln didn't answer . There was no print

L: in sharing his discomfort with Peggy .
P: in sharing hip discom fort with Pegy . '

L: Though your wings and your scars are new ,
P: Though your wings and your scars are new ,

L: you may join us . ' ' I am Lily-yo . We three
P: you may join us ; " I am kily-yo . We thre

L: are humans . You are only flymen . We will
P: are humans . You are only flymen . We wil

L: not join you . ' The Captives grunted in boredom .
P: not join you The Captives grunted in boredom .

L: The Chief Captive spoke again . ' Always this
P: The Chief Captive spote again . ' Always this

L: talk from you of the Heavy World ! You have
P: talk from you of the Heavy World ! You have

L: joined us . You are flymen , we are human . You
P: joined us You are flyman , we are human . Yon

L: I saw several men running down towards
P: I saw several men runing down towards

L: the shack . They were all armed with rifles .
P: the shake . They were al armed with riftes

L: As the nearest of them came round the
P: As the nearest of them came round the

L: shack , his rifle at the ready , I saw it was Nick
P: shat , his rite at the ready , I saw it was wick

L: Dowd , still wearing his blue check shirt . He
P: Boud , stil wearing his blue check shirt . He

L: came up close , eyeing us suspiciously . " We 've
P: came up close , eyeing us suspicionsly . " We 've

L: come 2a-calling , " I said . " Can't see no reason
P: come Ra-caling , " I said : " Can't se no reason

L: for calling , " he said . " Still long as you 're here
P: for caling , " he said . " Stil long as youire here

L: you may as well stay a while .
P: you may as wel stay a while .

L: 'Light an' come on in . " We dismounted and
P: light an' come on in . " We dismounted and

L: one of the miners who 'd come along with
P: one of the miners who d come along with

L: Nick Dowd took our horses off to water .
P: Wick poud tok our horses of the water .

L: We followed Nick Dowd into the shack .
P: We folowed Wick Bond into the shack .

L: They 'd rigged up a stove of sorts and on it
P: They ; d niged up a store of sorts and on it

L: a huge blackened coffee-pot steamed . Other
P: a huge blackened cofe-pot steamed . Other

L: miners followed in at our heels . Nick Dowd
P: miners folowed in at our hels . Wick Boud

L: found us a couple of boxes to sit on .
P: found us a couple of boses to sit on .

L: A small man in bib overalls and a battered
P: A smal man in bib overals and a batered

L: Derby hat fussed around the stove . " 2Ain't
P: Derby hat fused around the stove . " I din't

L: exactly the Ritz Hotel but we 've got our little
P: exactly the Rite Hoter but we 've got our litle

L: comforts , " said Dowd . He introduced the men
P: comforts , ' said O ond . He introduced the men

L: who 'd come in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick
P: who 'd come in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick

L: Golightly , Swede and the Sodbuster . This last was
P: Golightly , swede and Sudbuster . This last was

L: the little hombre in big overalls . Very soon he
P: the lite homore in big overals . Very son he

L: had tin mugs filled with hot black coffee
P: had tim mugs filed with hot black cofe

L: sweetened with molasses for all and for us
P: swectened with molases for al and for us

L: there were two plates of beans .
P: there were two plates of beans

L: " They gives you the wind , " said the Sodbuster
P: " They gives you the wind ; ' said the Sodbuster

L: handing them to us , " but it 's all we got
P: handing them to us , ' but it 's al we got

L: as of now , apart from a few sacks of gold
P: as of now , apart from a few sacks of gold

L: dust . " He winked at his partners . They all
P: dust . '" He winked at his partners . They al

L: watched us as we ate the beans . Then when
P: watched us as we ate the beams . Then when

L: we 'd finished and I 'd rolled a cigarette
P: we " ad finished and I 'd roled a cigarete

L: the man called Shorty said , " You were saying when
P: the man caled Shorty saich , " You were saying whom

L: you came in that 2somep'n happened last
P: you came in that esomepin hapened last

L: " Yes , " I said . " Something happened all right .
P: " Yes , ' I said . " Something hapened al right .

L: After you 'd left the meeting , mister " - I
P: After you'd left the meting , mister " - I

L: looked across at Nick Dowd - " someone cut
P: loked acros at Wick Boud- " someone cut

L: down William Appleton outside the Palace
P: down Wiliam Apleton outside the Palace

L: with a shotgun . " I paused and watched my
P: with a shotgun . ' I pansed and watched my

L: words affect them in their different ways .
P: words afect them in their diferent ways .

L: " That 's sure bad news , " said Dowd , sombrely .
P: " That 's sure bad news , ' said Doud , sombrely .

L: " It 2jest about leaves everything wide open
P: " It Rjest about leaves everything wide open

L: for Mr. Pell and his bunch , " observed
P: for Mr. Pel and his bunch , " observed

L: The rest of the men there said nothing but
P: The rest of the men there said nothing but

L: you could see they were hard hit . They were
P: you could se they were hard it . They were

L: simple men who knew a lot maybe about
P: simple men who knew a lot mapbe about

L: digging for gold but were babes in arms
P: diging for gold but were babes in arms

L: when it came to dealing with owlhooters and
P: when it came to dealing with outhoters and

L: desperadoes like Pell and Fenton and the
P: desperadoes like Pel and Fenton and the

L: rest . " I guess we 'd better hold onto the gold
P: rest . '" I gues we 'd beter hold onto the gold

L: right 2hyar , Nick , " said the Sodbuster .
P: right Chyar , Wick , ' said the sodbuster .

L: " Yeah , " said Dowd dubiously . " 2Mebbe we 'd
P: " Teak , ' said Bowd dubiously . " E Mebe we 'd

L: better . " Surprisingly Dan Maffrey came in at
P: beter . ' Surprisingly Dan Matfney came in at

L: that point . " If you do , " he said , " you 'll be
P: that point . " If you do , ' he said , " youil be

L: sure asking for trouble . They 'll be on your
P: sure asking for trouble . They'l be on your

L: necks before you can say ' knife ' . It wouldn't
P: necks before you can say ' knife ! . It wouldn't

L: be the first time they 've held up a diggings
P: be the first time theyive held up a digings

L: at gun point either . They 've done it before
P: at gun point either . Theyive done it before

L: and got away with it . "
P: and got away with it . "

L: " You 're 2durned tootin' , mister , " said the man
P: " You're Edurned totin ' , mister , " said the man

L: called Roper Smith . " We 've got five rifles among
P: caled Roper Smith . '" We 've got five rifles among

L: us and a few six-shooters . But most of us
P: us and a few six-shoters . But most of us

L: 2ain't 2eddicated in shootin' . It 'd be a
P: I ain't Redicated in shotin' s It 'd be a

L: 2massacree , 2yessir . " " If you 'll take a chance
P: emasacre , Exesir . " If youl take a chance

L: on getting your gold to the bank , then we 'll
P: on geting your gold to the bank , them weil

L: abide by what we said at the meeting , "
P: abide by what we said at the meting , '

L: said Dan . " We 'll watch the stage out of reach . "
P: said Dan . " Wel watch the stage out of reach : '

L: I couldn't quite see how all this fitted in
P: I coulden't quite se how al this filted in

L: with Dan Maffrey's aim to avenge himself
P: with Dan Mafrey's aim to arenge himself

L: on the Fenton bunch but still it was a
P: on the Fenton bunch but stil it was a

L: handsome offer so I chimed in too . " That
P: handsome ofer so I chimed in to . ' That

L: goes for me , gentlemen , " I said . " If they do try
P: goes for me , gentlemen ; I said . " If they do try

L: and hold up the stage , it 'll be a couple or
P: and hold up the stage , it il be a couple or

L: three of them , no more . I reckon we can deal
P: thre of them , no more . I recteon we can deal

L: ' But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - '
P: B But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' we are - "

L: ' Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Appa Bondi said .
P: ' Be sitent , woman , and listen , ' Band Apa Rondi said .

L: ' We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive . ' Some
P: " We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive ' Some

L: things we will tell you . All who make the journey from
P: things we wil tel yau . Al who make the journey from

L: the Heavy World become changed . Some die . Most live
P: the Heavy world become changed . Sorce die . Most live

L: and grow wings . Between the worlds are many strong
P: and grow wings . Betwen the worlds are many strong

L: rays , not seen or felt , which change our bodies .
P: rays , not sen or felt , which change our bodies

L: When you come here , when you come to the True
P: When you come here , when you cone to the True

L: World , you become a true human . The grub of the
P: world , you becone a true huran . The gub of the

L: tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So humans
P: tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it charges . So hurans

L: change . ' ' I cannot know what he says , ' Haris said
P: change . ' It canot know what he says , ' Maris said

L: stubbornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and
P: stubornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and

L: ' To this True World , as you call it , we come to die , '
P: To this True World , as you cal it , we come to dis , '

L: Lily-yo said , doubtingly . The Captive with the
P: kily - a said , doubtingly . The Captive with the

L: fleshless jaw said , ' The grub of the tigerfly thinks
P: fleshles jew said , ' The grets of the tigerfly thinks

L: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' ' You are still
P: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . " " You are stil

L: young , ' said the Chief Captive . ' You begin newly here .
P: young , ' said the Chief Captive . " You begin newly here .

L: Where are your souls ? ' Lily-yo and Flor looked at
P: Where are your souls ! " Lily-yo and fhor loked at

L: each other . In their flight from the 4wiltmilt they had
P: each other . In their flight from the Ewituilt they had

L: heedlessly thrown down their souls .
P: hedlesly thrown down their souls .

L: Haris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !
P: Maris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !

L: ' You see . You needed them no more . You are still
P: " You se . Hon neded then no more . You are stil

L: young . You may be able to have babies . Some of those
P: young . Nou may be able to have baties . Some of those

L: babies may be born with wings . ' The Captive with
P: babies may be bown with wings . " The Captive with

L: the boneless arms added , ' Some may be born wrong ,
P: the boneles arms aded , ' Some may be born wrong ,

L: as we are . Some may be born right . '
P: as we are . Some may be bown night . '

L: ' You are too foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are
P: ' You are to fout to live ! ' Maris growled . " Why are

L: you not killed ? ' ' Because we know all things , ' the
P: you not kiled ! " " Because we know al things , ' the

L: Chief Captive said . Suddenly his second head roused
P: chief Captive said . Sudenly his second head roused

L: itself and declared , ' To be a good shape is not all
P: itself and beclared , ' To be a god shape is not al

L: in life . To know is also good . Because we cannot move
P: in life . To know is also god . Because we canot move

L: well we can - think . This tribe of the True World
P: wel we can - thint . This tribe of the True world

L: is good and knows these things .
P: is god and knows these things .

L: So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo
P: So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo

L: muttered together . ' Do you say that you poor
P: nutered together . " D0 you say that you por

L: Captives rule the True World ? ' Lily-yo asked
P: captives rule the True World ? '" Lily- yo asked

L: at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? '
P: at last . " We do , " " Then why are you captives ? "

L: The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs connected ,
P: The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs conected ,

L: making his perpetual little gesture of protest ,
P: making his perpetual litle gesture of protest ,

L: ' To rule is to serve , woman . Those who bear power
P: ' To rule is to serve , woran . Those who ber power

L: are slaves to it . Only an outcast is free . Because
P: are slaves to it . Only an outcast is fre . Because

L: we are Captives , we have the time to talk and
P: we are Captives , we have the time to talk and

L: think and plan and know . Those who know
P: think and plan and know . Those who know

L: command the knives of others . ' ' No hurt will
P: comand the trives of others . ' " No hurt wil

L: come to you , Lily-yo , ' Band Appa Bondi added .
P: come to you , kily-yo , ' band Apa Bandi aded .

L: ' You will live among us and enjoy your life free
P: ' You wil live among us and enjoy your life fre

L: ' No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths .
P: ' No ! '" the Chief Captive said with both mouths .

L: ' Before she can enjoy , Lily-yo and her companion
P: ' before she can enjoy , lity-po and her coxpanion

L: Flor - this other man creature is plainly useless -
P: Flor - this other man creature is plainly useles -

L: must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ? ' Bondi
P: must help our great plan . ' The invasion ? " Bondi

L: asked . ' What else ? Flor and Lily-yo , you arrive
P: asked . ' What else . Flor and lily-yo , you arive

L: here at a good time . Memories of the Heavy World
P: here at god time . Hemories of the Heavy World

L: and its savage life are still fresh in you .
P: and its savage life are stil fresh in you .

L: We need such memories . So we ask you to go
P: We ned such menories . So we ask you to go

L: back there on a great plan we have . ' ' Go back ? '
P: back there on a great plan we have . " " 2o back ? "

L: gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to attack the Heavy
P: gasped Mor . ' Yes . We plan to atack the Heavy

L: World . You must help to lead our force . ' The long
P: world . You must help to lead our force . " The long

L: afternoon of eternity wore on , that long golden road
P: afternon of eterity wore on , that long golden road

L: of an afternoon that would somewhere lead to
P: of an afternon that would sorewhere lead to

L: Motion there was , but motion without event - except
P: Neation there was , but notion without event -except

L: for those negligible events that seemed so large to
P: for those negligible event that sened so large to

L: the creatures participating in them . For Lily-yo , Flor
P: the creatures participating in them . For lily-yo , Flor

L: and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was
P: and Maris there were many events . Chief of these was

L: that they learned to fly properly . The pains associated
P: that they learned to fly property . The pains asociated

L: with their wings soon died away as the wonderful
P: with their wings son died away as the wonderful

L: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the
P: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the

L: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly
P: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly

L: flopping movements of flymen on the Heavy World
P: floping movement of flymen on the Heavy world

L: Alastair was a bachelor . All his life he had
P: Mastoir was a bochelor . An his life he had

L: been inclined to regard women as something
P: ben vriclined to regord romen as something

L: which must necessarily be subordinated to his
P: which must necesarily be subordinated to his

L: career . Now he realised that he was entrusting not only
P: carer . Non he realised that he was entrusting not only

L: his own life , but Geoffrey's as well , to a strange girl
P: his own wrife , but Geofrey's as wel , to a stronge give

L: whom he had never met and on whom after no more
P: whom he had never mel and on whom after nomore

L: than a couple of telephone calls he was
P: than a couple of tlephone cals he was

L: prepared to place complete reliance .
P: prepored to place compele releiance

L: " Good luck , Air Marshal , " she said gently . " I 'll
P: God luck , tir Mausnal , ' she said guntly . ' I'e

L: be waiting for you at the Hotel Roma at six this
P: I be waiting for you at the Hatel Pona at fi this .

L: evening - and I shall look forward to meeting you
P: evening - and I wuale lok forwand to wulting you

L: both at midnight . " They might have been
P: both a minight . " They migut have ben

L: arranging a supper party . Then she rang off .
P: arauging a super pary . Then one rong of .

L: Alastair admitted that never in a not altogether
P: Mastair admited that never in a not altogether

L: uneventful life had he come across a girl who
P: uneventful le had he come acos agive wno

L: sounded so charming and appeared to be so
P: sounded so charming and apeared to be so

L: It was a novel experience . Alastair was
P: It was a movel experience . Mastair was

L: quite unable to explain why he should feel
P: quite unable to explain why he should fel

L: so much confidence in her . Once again
P: So much confidence in her . Once again

L: she checked back her instructions . It was
P: she cheched back her instructions . It was

L: obvious that she did not fail to appreciate the
P: obvious that she did not fail to apreciate the

L: faith which he was placing in her and
P: faith which he was planing in her and

L: was prepared to accept the responsibility .
P: was prepared to acept the responsiblity .

L: For some reason the orderlies had forgotten
P: For some reason the onderlies had forgoten

L: to switch on the lights ; there was no colour -
P: to witch on the lighter , there mre no colour-

L: physical features were distinguishable solely by
P: phupical fatires were distimpmishable saldy by

L: gradations of silvery greyness . Even the snow-
P: grolations of silveny greyes . Wen the onor-

L: capped summit of Mont Blanc , seven miles
P: caped sumit of Honl Rlane , seven miled

L: below , was not recognisable among the host
P: belore , wao not reconiable among the lest

L: of lower peaks . The screen of the air-to-air
P: of lover peaks . The scren of the ir-to-ir

L: radar glowed . Occasionally minute spots
P: rader glawed . Ocasionaly minute opots

L: flickered across its surface , but there was
P: flickered wcros its aufuce , but there who

L: In the exceptional clarity he was even able to
P: In the exceptional charity he was even abe to

L: make a direct comparison between the radar
P: make a direct comparison betwen the radar

L: image and the ground itself . Ahead lay the
P: image and the ground itself . thend bay the

L: Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the
P: Plain of Lembardy , to the right , Turin ; to the

L: left , Milan . The directional angle of the
P: left , Wilan . The directional angle of the

L: scanner could be adjusted to cover any
P: scaner could be adjusted to cover any

L: particular area within its range . Geoffrey
P: particular area within its range , heofrey

L: turned the scale slowly to cover the
P: turned the scake stowly # to cover the

L: ground immediately ahead .
P: ground imediately shead .

L: Now , as Alastair reduced the thrust , the
P: How , as Alastin reduced the truot , the

L: pitch changed as the nose of the aircraft
P: pitch danged as the nose of the isomif

L: dipped slightly . The needle of the speed
P: liped slightly . The nedle of the oped

L: recorder swung gently through 8.0 , 7.0 , 6.0
P: recorder oming gently through 8,8,7.0 , 6.0

L: before coming to rest at 5.0 . " We 're a bit
P: before coming to rest at 8.5 , " We 've a bil

L: ahead of time , " said Alastair . " We 'll run
P: shead of time ' , aid Hastair . " He'l mar

L: in on minimum engine power . " Geoffrey
P: in on mininum engine power ! Gofrey

L: smiled . Alastair talked of running in when
P: cmiled . Austin talked of muning in when

L: they were still more than four hundred
P: they were stil more than foun Lundred

L: miles from their destination .
P: miles from their deotination .

L: He was able to pick out towns , unrecognisable to the
P: He was able to pick out towns , unrecognitable to the

L: naked eye , obscured by the ground haze which even
P: naked eye , obscured by the groanid hase which even

L: on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced
P: on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced

L: at the speed recorder . It seemed almost incredible that
P: at the sped recorder . It semed almoil incriedible that

L: the tiny white figure of 8.5 against which the needle
P: the ting white figure of 8.3 against which the neide

L: was resting could really mean hundreds of knots .
P: was resting could realy mean huindreds of knot .

L: They were nearing Modena . Geoffrey focused the radar scanner
P: They were nearing Modena . Geofrey focused the radar scamer

L: on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port .
P: on the bridge over the Po , bavely forty miles to porty

L: He was able to trace the course of the river ; he
P: the was able to trace the course of the rwer ;

L: thought he could recognise the route of N12 ,
P: thought he could repognise the ruk of . Waige

L: along which he had motored so desperately little
P: along which he had motored so desperaitely

L: more than twenty-four hours earlier . Since then
P: more thats twepty-four hours earlier . Since , then

L: he had flown to England , attended the vital
P: he had flown to England , atended the vital

L: conference in Bruce Denton's office , been whisked
P: conference in Bruce I ofice , ben whiched

L: by special helicopter from the Horse Guards
P: by special belicepter from the Horse Guards

L: Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for six blessed
P: parade to Bocembe Down , slept for syp , blespeo ) ,

L: refreshing hours and had now completed two-thirds
P: refreshima hours and had now completed two-thurds

L: of the journey back to the place where every
P: of the journey back to the place where , every

L: indication pointed to Eve being held .
P: indieation pointed to . Eve being held .

L: Geoffrey set himself to consider the
P: Geofrey set himself to consider the

L: movements of the Bentley . It had passed
P: movements of the Pentley . It had pased

L: him at the temporary bridge over the
P: him ad the temporary buidge over the

L: Tartaro at a few minutes past ten on the
P: Tor taso at a few minister past for on the

L: previous night . He worked out the distance
P: previous might . He worked out the listance

L: on the presumption that its route had been
P: on the presumpton that its roule had ben

L: through Florence and Rome and then
P: through Flerene and Rome and then

L: across Italy via Foggia to Barletta .
P: aeros (tbly via Togin to Basleto .

L: It came to just over six hundred
P: It came to pjust over six hundred

L: DARKNESS had descended like a curtain by the
P: DREWES had descended like a cuntain by the

L: time they docked at Belleray . And though Guy ,
P: time they docked at Beleray . And though luy ,

L: made nervous by Beryl's silence , drove at reckless
P: made nervens by Bery's silence , drereal reckles

L: speed to the Villa , it was quickly evident that
P: sped to the rila , it was quickly evident that

L: the party was over . Piers came strolling out to
P: the party was over . Piers came stroling out to

L: meet the Deanes , and as soon as Guy had
P: met the Deacues , and as sen as Cny had

L: driven away , invited them casually to come to
P: driven away , invited them casualy to come to

L: " Oh , she was due ! " And then he added in the same
P: COh , she was due ! " And then he aded in the same

L: casual tone , " She 's not returning to her family . She 's
P: cesual tone , ' She 's nt returning to her family . She 's

L: going to live with friends of the bank manager , just
P: going to live with friends of the bank manager , just

L: this side of Belleray . " Mrs. Deane made a suitable
P: this side of Beleray . " Mrs. Deane mace a suitable

L: comment , but Beryl said nothing . She was trying
P: coment , but Bery' said nothing . She was trying

L: to sort things out in her mind . That beneath his
P: to sort things out in her mind . That bereath his

L: unnaturally smooth exterior Piers was simmering
P: nunateualy smoth exterion Pies was simering

L: with anger against her she had no doubt .
P: with anger against hes she had no doubt .

L: To Beryl , at least , this was anti-climax with a
P: To Pery ' , at least , this was anti-climat with a

L: vengeance . She had expected to be met with violent
P: vengeance . She had expected tobe met with vident

L: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .
P: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .

L: But it did not take her long to realise that his mood
P: But it did not take her limng to realise that hismod

L: was less pleasant than appeared on the surface .
P: was les pleasant than apeared on the surfuce .

L: He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his
P: He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his

L: own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of
P: own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of

L: asking Jack - as a representative of the Vallin family -
P: asking tack - as a representative of the Walin family -

L: to come over and make the presentation in her stead .
P: to come over and make the presentation in her stead .

L: " I caught him just as he was going to the
P: " I cught him just as he was going to the

L: airport to meet Blanche , " he said . " As a matter
P: airport to met Dlanche , " he said " As a mater

L: of fact I 'd asked him last night to deputise
P: of fuct Id ushed him last night to deputise

L: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party
P: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party

L: too . They 're both here . " " I didn't know she was
P: to . They 're both here . " " I dichi't know she was

L: coming back from Barbados so soon . " Beryl
P: coming back from Barbados aso son . " Bery '

L: said the first thing that came into her head .
P: said the first thing that came into her head .

L: Jack and Blanche were quick to sympathise , and to
P: tack and blanhe were quick to sympathing and to

L: express their disgust at Sir John's abominable treatment
P: epes their disgest of fir thats domicable tradment

L: of his guests . But Piers remained aloof , and when Beryl
P: of his quests . 8 . Riors remained abof and when beryt

L: suggested having a second party , the following week , he
P: sugested having a scond pupty , the folowing wed , he

L: poured cold water on the project . Everyone , he declared ,
P: porited old unter on the project . Eraryane , ho declared ,

L: had had a thoroughly good time , and it would take them
P: had had a throughly gad time , and It would tale them

L: nearly to next week to settle down again . Meanwhile
P: nearly to next wek to sete down again . Meanwhile

L: Hubert would have betaken himself and his well-
P: Intest would have betaken himself and his wel -

L: earned gratuity to his native village at the
P: eashed gratuity the his native lilege at the

L: " It 's your superior attitude that riles me . " Beryl was
P: in t's your superior atitude that sites me . ' Beryt was

L: scarlet with annoyance . " How I happened to be marooned
P: scartet with aunoyance . " Hho I hapened to be maraned

L: at Balicou doesn't interest you in the faintest degree . You
P: at falicon doesn't interest you in the faintest degre has

L: look as though it was only what you expected of me ,
P: bok as thouge it was only what you expeted of me ,

L: as though I didn't care a hoot about letting Hubert
P: as though I didnt care a lot about leting thabert

L: It was all over and done with .
P: It was al ovey and done with .

L: For the time being Beryl was content to let
P: For the time being beuyt was content to let

L: it go at that , but she resolved to have
P: it go at that , but she resolved to have

L: it out with Piers when a reasonable
P: it out with Piers when a reasonable

L: opportunity presented itself . He must
P: oportumity presented itself . He must

L: learn that he could not treat her
P: learn that he could not treat her

L: with injustice and contempt , ignoring
P: with injustice and contempt , iguoring

L: her explanations as though he were
P: hes explunations as though he were

L: a schoolmaster and she a small ,
P: a scholmaster and she a smal ,

L: He gave her no chance of any private
P: He gave hes no chance of any private

L: conversation that evening , for when
P: convereation that evening , for when

L: Blanche and Jack left , he went with
P: Blanche and Jack left , he wrlet with

L: them . But next morning she insisted
P: them . But nixt morning she insisted

L: on his taking her out in the jeep -
P: on his taking her out in the jep-

L: to find , if possible , Hubert and his
P: to find , if posible , Itmbert and his

L: relations , and tell them of
P: relations , and thet tel them of

L: her great disappointment at being
P: hes great disapointment at beny

L: held up in Balicou .
P: halp up in Babicon .

L: With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his
P: With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his

L: Boxer , to the back , and made room for her
P: Bover , to the back , and made rom for her

L: beside him . " Is that all you want to do ? "
P: beside him . " Is that al you want to do ? "

L: he asked , letting in the clutch . " No ; I want
P: he asked , leting in the cutch . " No ; I wast

L: to make you understand just what happened
P: to make you understard just what hapened

L: about this Balicou trip , " she returned
P: about this balicon trip , " she returned

L: coldly . " I 'm a little tired of being treated
P: coldly . " I 'm a litler tired of being treated

L: like an ineffective imbecile . "
P: like an inefective imbecile . "

L: " And I 'm heartily sick of being constantly called
P: " and I 'm heardily side of being constantly caled

L: to account for my manners , " he retorted .
P: to acount for my warners , ' he retorted .

L: " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for
P: " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for

L: you the best way I can by getting hold of Jack
P: you the best way I can by getling hold of sack

L: to make the presentation , I run the damned
P: to make the presentation , Iren the damned

L: party to the best of my ability - saying the
P: party to the best of my ability - saying the

L: sugary things you ought to have been there
P: Angary things you ought to have ben there

L: to say - and all you can do is to find
P: to say - and al you can do is to find sit

L: " As your employee it 's not my business
P: " As your employe it 's not my busines

L: to understand all the whys and
P: to understand al the whys and

L: wherefores of your actions , " he said
P: wherefores of your actions , " he said

L: stiffly . " Still less to criticise you . "
P: stifly . ' Stil les to criticise you . "

L: " Oh , drop that nonsense , Piers !
P: " On , drop that housuse , Piers I

L: Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with
P: Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with

L: mounting exasperation . " Very well ! " He
P: mounting exasperation . " Very wel ? " He

L: brought the jeep to a standstill in a rough
P: brought the jep to a standstil in a rough

L: path fringed and shaded by citrus trees .
P: path fringed and shaded by citmus tres .

L: " If you want my true opinion I 'll give it .
P: " If you want my true opinion lil give it .

L: You made some sort of a protest to Graybury .
P: You made some sort of a protest to Grapbury .

L: I 'll give you credit for that . But you didn't press
P: I l give you credit for that . But you didn't pres

L: the matter because , very naturally , you were
P: the mater because , very naturaly , you were

L: thoroughly enjoying Forrest's company in
P: thoroughly enjoying Forest's company in

L: idyllic surroundings . " " How dare you say
P: idylic suroundings . " " How care you say

L: such a thing ? " she blazed . " For goodness'
P: such a thing ? ' she blaged . " For godnes'

L: sake show a glimmer of reason , " was his
P: sake show a glimer of reason , " was his

L: equally indignant rejoinder .
P: equaly indiquent rejoinder .

L: " You talk as though we were alone on Balicou ! "
P: " You talk as though we were alone on Balicon ! "

L: She avoided his gaze , and tried to ignore that
P: She avoided his gase , and tried to ignore that

L: last impertinent remark . " With four other people - "
P: last impertiment remark . With four other people-"

L: " Whom you never once managed to circumvent . "
P: " Whom you never once managed to cirenment . "

L: The mockery in his voice had deepened . " With
P: The mockery in his vorice had depened . " With

L: all due deference , Miss Deane - come off it ! "
P: al due deference , Mis Deane- come of it ! "

L: She met his eyes then .
P: She met his eyes then .

L: She wavered , and at last said
P: She warered , and at last said #

L: slowly , " If you must drag the truth
P: slowly , " If you must dray the truth

L: out of me , I must ask you to regard
P: out of me , a must ask you to regard

L: it as confidential . " " My dear Beryl ,
P: it as confidential . " " My dear beryh ,

L: don't tell me anything , if you 'd rather
P: don't tel me anything , if youid rather

L: not . " He was clearly startled by her
P: not . " He was clearly startled by her

L: words . " But remember , it was you ,
P: words . " But remember , it was you ,

L: not I , who started this conversation . "
P: not ) , who started this conversation . "

L: " Neither can Nigel , " smiled Diana .
P: " Weither can Nigel , " smiled Diana .

L: " He 's saving up to get married . Remember ? "
P: " He 's saving up to get maried . Remember ? "

L: " I remember , " quipped the houseman ,
P: " I remember , " quiped the houseman ,

L: meaning no offence , " but does he ?
P: meaning no ofence , " but does he I

L: That blonde was something . " " Anybody
P: That blonde was something . " " Anybody

L: I know ? " she smiled . " I think so .
P: o know ? " she smiled . " I think so .

L: I got a good look at her . But if Nigel
P: I got a god lok at hes . But it Nigel

L: wasn't there it isn't important , is it ? "
P: wasn't there it isn't important , is it ? "

L: " No , " Di said immediately . " It isn't at
P: " No , " Di said imediatly . " It isn't at

L: " Oh , he wasn't . His motor-bike had
P: " On , he wasn't . His motor-bike had

L: broken down outside and he noticed
P: broken down outside and he noticed

L: your car and then you dancing with
P: your car and then you dancing with

L: this blonde . " " Really ? " Nigel cocked
P: this blonde . " " Realy ? " Nigel coted

L: one eyebrow . " Actually she was brunette
P: one eyebrow . " Actualy she was brunetle

L: at the roots and I had a redhead on
P: at the rots and i had a redhead an

L: the other arm . He would have told
P: the other arm . He would have told

L: you this , too ? " " No , " she laughed .
P: you this , to ? " " No , " she laughed .

L: " He didn't actually see you . Because
P: " He didn't actualy se you . Because

L: it was your car I suppose he
P: it was your car I supose he

L: presumed it was you , all dressed up in
P: presumed it was you , al dresed up in

L: " My white or my black ? " Nigel enquired .
P: " My white or may black ? " Wigel enquired .

L: " Now I wonder which I wore at that
P: " Now I wondes which I wore at that

L: particular surgery ? " " You are a fool ,
P: particular surgesy ! " " you are a fod ,

L: darling , " Di said happily . " I shall take
P: darling , " Di said hapily . " A shal take

L: great pleasure in telling that young man
P: great pleasure in teling that young man

L: exactly what you were doing that
P: exatly what you were doing that

L: evening . " " No , don't , " he said , after
P: evering . " " No , don't , " he said , after

L: kissing her again . " I rather like to have
P: Rising her again . " I rather like to have

L: the housemen think of me as a
P: the housemen think of me as a

L: I 'm such a dull fellow , really . " " Dull ? " She
P: I 'm Sucha dult felow , realy . " " Bul ? " she

L: couldn't believe it . Self-deprecation
P: couldn't believe it . Self-deprecation

L: was not one of Nigel's usual attributes .
P: was not one of Wigel's usual atibutes .

L: " You need your holiday , darling . I only
P: " you ned your holiday , darling . I only

L: wish I could go with you ! " " Doctor
P: wish I could go with you l " " Doctor

L: Wills , if you 're making improper suggestions ... ? "
P: Wils , if you're making impropes sugestions . ? "

L: " It would make me more interesting ,
P: " It would make me more interesting . "

L: I suppose ? " she enquired archly .
P: I supose ! ' she enquired archly .

L: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almost snapped ,
P: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almost snaped ,

L: surprising her . " You sounded like some-
P: Surprising her . " You sounded like some-

L: body else for a moment there . It doesn't
P: body ete for a moment there . It doesn't

L: become you to behave like a - a tart , Di . "
P: become you to behave like a - a tart , Di. "

L: " Nigel - ! " she gasped . " I didn't mean to
P: " Wigel- ! " she gasped . " I didn't mean to

L: behave like anything of the kind . I
P: behave like anything of the lednd . O

L: was only joking . " " Well , don't . It 's
P: was only joking . " " Wel , don'ts . It's

L: miserable enough my having to take my
P: miserable enough my having to take my

L: leave in the autumn without you
P: leare in the autumn without you

L: trying to be bright and gay about it .
P: trying to be bright and gay about it .

L: Their air of smiling somnolence showed them
P: Their air of smiling somnolence showed them

L: to have been guests at yesterday's
P: to have ben quests at yesterday's

L: celebrations , and their friendly welcome
P: celebrations , and their friendly welcome

L: and warm sympathy , as she explained
P: and warm sympathy , as she explained

L: how she had come to miss the party ,
P: how she had come to mies the party ,

L: made her send a complacent glance
P: made her send a complacent glance

L: in Piers' direction . What a fuss-box the
P: in Pers' direction . What a fus-lor the

L: man was , she thought impatiently ,
P: man was , she thought impatintly ,

L: trying to worry her into the belief
P: trying to mory her into the belief

L: that her failure to appear at a function
P: that her failure to apear at a fuction

L: on the estate was a major error :
P: on the estate was a major eror .

L: And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing
P: and then she received a jolt . Old Hebent , standing

L: beside her , his battered hat in his hand , his
P: beside her , his batered hat in his hand , his

L: toothless mouth stretched in a wide grin , told her
P: tolkles mouth stretched in a wide gain , told her

L: in halting 6patois that " 3Mistah Piers " had
P: in haling Gpatois that " SMistak Piers '" had

L: explained right at the start that " 3Mis' Beryl "
P: exeplained night at the start that , Sthis ' Beryl "

L: would be 3" plenty , plenty sad " not to be back
P: would be 3'plenty , planty sad " mot to be baek at

L: That it wouldn't be her fault at all . That
P: That it wouldn't be her fault at al . Thast

L: she was a lady who , like her Uncle Charles ,
P: she was a lady who , like her Unole Charla ,

L: took the highest pride in keeping her word . " I
P: tock the highest prick in kaping her word . ' I

L: could see 3anudder 3t'ing , " he went on in a
P: could se Samuder Sting , ' he went on in a

L: lower voice , his sunken black eyes twinkling .
P: lowes voice , his suster black eyes tminkling .

L: 3" He powerful anxious , poor Mistah Piers .
P: Site powerful ancious , pour Mistak Pers .

L: We all know how Balicou Island dangerous
P: We al know how Balicon bland dengrous

L: to all kin' o' boats , wid d'ose big , big
P: to al tirl of boats , wid dlose big , big

L: rocks in an' out o' de water .
P: racls in an' out of de werter .

L: He had almost entirely settled back into his old
P: 'e had almost entirely seted back into bis old

L: ways , even to reading law about two hours each
P: mays , even to reading law about two bours each

L: day . Though he did not refuse wine , which the
P: day . Though he did not refuse-wine , which the

L: judge always had on the table at dinner , he
P: judge alwoys bad an the table at disnes , he

L: did not act as though he found it necessary
P: did not act as though her found it necesary

L: except in moderate compliance with his father's
P: except in moderate compliance with his father's

L: Around that rounded rocky promontory where the
P: fromnd that rounhed roly proturntory where the

L: white spray could be seen flying across the distance
P: white spray could be sen flying acrows the distarice

L: of a mile and a half , came the yawl under her full
P: of a mile and a half , came the youl under hr ful

L: triangular sail , and to the judge's frightened eyes , so
P: triangular sail , and to the judoe's frightend eyes , so

L: close to the rocks that it would be dashed
P: close to the rocks that it would be alashed

L: against them with the lift of the next wave .
P: against them with the lift ofthe next wore

L: " That boy ! That damned fool boy ! What does he mean
P: " That bay ? That daned fol boy ? What doe he mican

L: by trying to come home now , even if he did promise ?
P: by tying to com homn non , even if he otd pronce ?

L: What does time mean when weighed against the life of
P: What doer tme man when waphed apinst the life of

L: two human beings ? " Not until he was certain that the
P: two human beings ? ' Not wil he war certain that the

L: yawl had rounded the rocky point instead of
P: panl had rounded the roky point instead of

L: being flung against the huge boulders did the judge
P: being flung agpainst the hage boulders did the podge

L: empty his lungs of stifling air and refill them
P: emply hil mngs of sifling air and refil them

L: with part of that howling northwest gale .
P: with part of that howling northert gale .

L: When the wind was on a rampage , as it was
P: When the wind was on a rampape , as it was

L: now , it could kick up a sea-sized commotion
P: mow , it could kick up a sea-sited comotion

L: where it had a straight blow of eight miles
P: where it had a straight blow of eight miles

L: down the lake . 3" Big blow , Judge , " re-
P: down the lake . S ' Big blow , Judge , " r.

L: marked Willie Kim as the wind billowed
P: marked Wilic him as the wind bilowed

L: out and sucked in his baggy black
P: out and stucked in his bagy black

L: 3" Blow like hell . Maybe by and by
P: 3 ' Dlow like hel . Maglse by and by

L: she blow some more . " " Hello , Willie , where
P: she blow some more . " " Helo , Wilie , wheic

L: did you come from ? " the judge said in
P: did your come from ? " the judge raid in

L: mild surprise . " I didn't hear you . Do you
P: wild surprise . " I didn't hear you . To you

L: see that fool boy of mine out there on
P: se that fod boy of mine out there on

L: the lake ? " 3" I see him . You don't need
P: the lake ? " I " I se him . Yon don't ned

L: worry , Judge . Big wind like that can't
P: wory , fudys . Big wind like that canlt

L: Bill is good man , and Bueno Buck is raised on lake .
P: Bil is god man , and Bveno Buck is raised on lake .

L: He no drown , too . Him , his mother throw him into
P: He no drown , to . Him , his mother throw him into

L: water to make him swim when he is born .
P: water to make him sein when he is torn .

L: Maybe so Bill , he can swim that good , too . "
P: Mayse so Bil , he can swin that god , to . "

L: The yawl , riding the high waves with an air that
P: The yaul , riding the high wares with an air that

L: might have made an ocean liner envious , seemed
P: might have made an oecon tiner enrious , semed

L: prepared to make a safe though violent landing
P: prepared to make asafe though violent landing

L: when there came a sudden gust of wind
P: when there came a suden got guot of wind

L: " My God ! " the judge cried out . " The boy
P: " Why God ! " the judge coied out. " The boy

L: is going to try to make a landing on the
P: is going to try to make a landing on the

L: weather side of that pier ! He 'll wreck ! "
P: weather side of that pier ! He l sreck ! "

L: Willie Kim was speechless , only his slant
P: bilie kim was spedles , only his slaut

L: black eyes showing any emotion . With a
P: black eyes shosing any eustion . With a

L: quick shift of tiller , and at the same time
P: quick shift of tiler , and at the same time

L: jibbing the boom to which he had the
P: jildring the bon to shich he had the

L: stay rope fastened , Bill made the
P: Stay rope fastened , bil made the

L: It seemed to the frightened judge
P: If semed to the frightened judge

L: as though his son would actually
P: as though his son would actualy

L: shoot the craft in under the outer
P: shot the caft in under the outer

L: end of the wharf . But by pressing
P: end of the whart . But by presing

L: the tiller hard over and at the
P: Whe tiles had over and at the

L: same time dropping the small sheet
P: samue time doping the smal shet

L: of wet canvas , Bill cleared the
P: of wet camas , bil cleaved the

L: corner of the pier by inches , and
P: corkes of the pies by incles , and

L: with the tiller still hard over , brought
P: with the tiler stil had over , brought

L: the yawl up against the waves
P: the paul up against the waves

L: " Willie , " the judge said huskily ,
P: "Wilie " " the judge said hurkily ,

L: " that was as pretty a piece of seamans-
P: " that was as pretly a piece of teamans-

L: hip as I ever saw . That boy of
P: hip as I ever vaw . That boy of

L: mine seems to know how to do
P: minone sems to know howr to do

L: everything , when he wants to . "
P: eurything , when he mants to , "

L: " 3Naw , " disputed Willie . 3" Just
P: 13 Naw , " dispusted Wiklie , ? ' Just

L: play in damn fine luck this time .
P: play in damns fime luck this time .

L: He plenty smart though . " As they
P: te plenty tart though . ' As they

L: reached the pier , the judge on legs
P: tached the pier , the judge our legs

L: that were a little unsteady , they
P: that were a litle unsteady , threy

L: found Bueno Buck , now on the
P: found fue no Buck , now on the

L: pier , leading the yawl toward
P: Fier leachne the joul tonerd .

L: " Hello , Dad ! " Bill called . " I hope you
P: " Holo , Yad ! ' Bil caled . " I hope you

L: weren't worried . We 're going to
P: werei't wouried . We 've going to

L: drag the boat ashore and turn
P: drog the boat athore and ton

L: her over . She has a foot of
P: hes oves . She hos a fot of

L: water in her . I wouldn't be
P: boke in her . I woeldn't be

L: surprised if we broke all
P: surpised if be broke ol

L: speed records on the way in .
P: sped records on the way in .

L: Yes sir , I am slightly wet , and
P: Yes sit , I am shightly wet , and

L: Buck would be wetter if he
P: Buch would . We weter if he

L: had more clothes on . "
P: had more clotler on . '

L: With four doing the job and the waves
P: With four doing the jobs and the waves

L: pushing at the stern , the yawl was soon
P: pushing at the stern , the yaut was son

L: dragged out but before it was turned
P: draged out but before it was turned

L: over Bueno Buck reached into the foot
P: over Bueno Buck reached into the fot

L: of water , tossed out a string of silvery
P: of water , tosed out a string of sivery

L: lake trout and said - 3" Bill , he 's better
P: lake trout and said - 3 " Bil , he 's beter

L: man at catch 'em than Injun , Judge .
P: man at catch em than Injun , Gudge .

L: You look . Little one more as fifteen
P: You lok . Litle one more as fiften

L: inches . Maybe big one four feet ,
P: inches . Maybe big one four fet ,

L: " By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! "
P: " By Ghearge , that is a beautiful string of frish ! '

L: exclaimed the judge . " Toss them on the grass
P: exclaimed the judge . " Tos them on the gros

L: and then we 'll all get hold and heave . " A
P: and then weil al get hold and heave . " A

L: few moments later the yawl was upside
P: few moments later the jaul was upside

L: down , exposing its shallow keel .
P: dlown , exporing its shalow tel .

L: A submariner's wife needed to be spared as much
P: A submariner's wife neded to be spared as mud

L: as possible . Anyway the Parsifal affair was far
P: as pesible . Pnyway the Parsifal afair was far

L: too fresh in both their minds to be a comfortable
P: to fresh in both their minds to be a comfortable

L: subject for discussion . " It 's a command , " he said .
P: subject for discusion . " It 's a comand , " he said .

L: We can do with the extra money . It 'll just about
P: We can do with the extra money . Stil sist about

L: pay Jacky's school fees . " " What shall we do
P: pay Jaly's schol fes . " " What shal wedo

L: about this house ? - and Jill's school ? - and oh !
P: about this house ? - and fil's shol ? - and on'

L: If I 'd known what it would be like I 'd sooner
P: of Id known what it would be like o 'd sconer

L: have married a parson . " He kissed her . " Parsons
P: have maried a parson . " We Risedher . " Parsons

L: work on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse off than
P: work on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse of than

L: submariners . You ought to have married that fat
P: Submariners . You ought to have maried that fat

L: stockbroker chap and shared him with his three
P: slockbroker chap and shared him with his thre

L: mistresses . Anyway it might be much worse .
P: mistreses . Anyway it might be much worse .

L: Pericles is a Portsmouth boat . She spends longer
P: Peries is a Porlomouth beat . She spends longer

L: in harbour than any other submarine .
P: in harbour than any other sutomatines .

L: Practically a shore job . Cheer up . " She wiped
P: Practicaly a shore job , Cher ups . " She wiped

L: her eyes and reached for her address book . " I 'll
P: her eyes and reached for her adres lok . " Il

L: write to those agents and try to get a flat in
P: write to those agents and try to get a flat in

L: Alverstoke , " she said . " But I don't know what
P: Aeverstote , " she said . " But I don't know what

L: Jill will say about leaving her school . It 's a
P: fil wil say about leaving her schof . It's a

L: blessing that Jacky 's off to boarding school .
P: blesing that facly's of to boarding shol .

L: And all the trouble you 've taken with the
P: And al the trouble you 've taken with the

L: That little beast , Robbie Munyard ! " Having
P: that litle beast , Robie Hunyard ! '" Having

L: said her say Peggy manfully shouldered her
P: said her say Pegy manufuly shouldered her

L: burden and prepared to break up yet
P: brther burden and prepared to breal up yet

L: another home . In the ten years of married life
P: another home . In the tenyears of marnied life

L: this had already happened half a dozen times .
P: this had already hapened half a docentimes .

L: Such is the life of a naval officer's wife .
P: But is the life of a naval aficer's wife .

L: John's father had been a naval officer of the old
P: fatin's father had ben a naral oficer of the old

L: school ; some of his rigid ideas had been passed
P: 30ol ; some of his rigid ileas had ben pased

L: on to the second generation . One of these was that
P: on to the second generation . One of these was that

L: an officer should join a ship , on taking up a
P: an oficer should sain a ship , on taking up a

L: new appointment , at nine a.m. precisely , dressed
P: new apointment , at nine am. precisely , dresed

L: in the modern equivalent of frock-coat and sword .
P: in the modern equiradent of trol-coat and sword ,

L: It would have been acceptable to all concerned
P: It would have ben aceptable to al concerned

L: if John had stepped into Fort Blockhouse clad in
P: if John had steped into fort Blaclhouse clad in

L: plain-clothes on the previous night , but ways
P: plain-clother on the previous night , bout ways

L: instilled by martinet parents have a habit of
P: instiled by martinet parents have a habet of

L: So he put up for the night at The Admiral's Head , that
P: So he put up for the riught at the Admiral's Head , that

L: famous Portsmouth hostelry , second only in historic
P: famours Portmnith Rostelny , secand only in Busteric

L: interest to The George , unhappily destroyed by German
P: Piterest to the Georege , Anhapily destrayed by German

L: bombs during the last war . Having deposited his
P: lonls during the last war . Having deposited his

L: baggage and unpacked his overnight-bag he
P: bugage and umparked his ovemight -bay be

L: went in search of a drink . The lower bar was
P: went in search of a drisle . The lower lar was

L: empty , save for the lady known by all habitue
P: empty , save for thelady known by al balitue

L: man who was staring moodily into a gin
P: man who was storing modily into a gin

L: Seaweed's memory was prodigious ; her manner
P: Searwed's memery was prodicgious ; Her maner

L: must have been worth a great deal to the proprietors
P: munt have ben worth a great deal to the propriton

L: of the hotel . She greeted John , however , with less
P: of the hoted . She greated fahen , however , with les

L: than her usual cordiality and flashed a warning
P: than his Uisual cardiality and flashed a haming

L: glance at him . Evidently the other occupant
P: glance at Mim. Evidently the ather ocupant

L: of the bar was not 6persona grata . If her
P: of the bar was not Gpersena qrate . If his

L: memory was good , so was this stranger's .
P: meney was god , so was this stranger's

L: " You 're Commander Winter , " he said . " Have a
P: " Yoau 're Comander Whinter , " he said . " Have a

L: gin ? " He turned to Seaweed -
P: gin ? ' He turned to Seamed -

L: " Make it a large one , darling . I know the naval
P: " Make it a large are , darling , I hersew the naval

L: habits . ' Drink gin and call each other wallahs ,
P: halits . " Prite again and cal each other walates ,

L: what ! ' - as the Guards officer said on his return
P: what ! - as the Eouards oficer said on his return

L: from a visit to the Royal Navy . Submarines , what .
P: from a sisit to the Rayal Mary . Sulmarines , what .

L: Youngest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled
P: Younegest 8.S.L. in the war , what ? Cranled

L: inside a submarine casing to defuse a Jerry
P: Inside a sulmarine casing to defusea formy

L: bomb . Should have been a V.C.
P: lant . Should have ben a l.C .

L: What are you waiting for , darling ? The officer is
P: Wheatare you waiting for , darling ? The oficer is

L: obviously thirsty . " John fought back his
P: alviausly Misty . " Jotir fought back his

L: inherited desire to snub the man . If he did he
P: inherited desire to smub the man . If he did he

L: would have to leave the bar and either sit in
P: would have to leave the bar and sither sit in

L: the lounge or return to his bedroom .
P: the lauge as return to his bed woar .

L: Seaweed sensed his embarrassment and
P: Seared rensed his enularesment and

L: came to the rescue . " You haven't introduced
P: came to the resore . " You haven't introduced

L: yourself , " she said with mock severity .
P: yourself , " she said with made severity .

L: " It 's a rule on these premises . No treating with
P: " It 's a nulean these premises . As treading with

L: strangers - that 's right , John , isn't it ? " " My
P: strangers - Wlast 's right-falm , ini't it ? " " My

L: fault entirely , " said the stranger . " It 's my conceited
P: fanitexhiely , ' said the stranger . ' It 'is my conceited

L: nature - I assumed that you both knew who I
P: nature-Janumed that you both fonever who I

L: was . I 'm Ian Bawley . Does that mean anything
P: was . Jam Dan Pawley . Oves that mean anything

L: to you ? " It did . Ian Bawley's name was
P: to you ? " Itdid . Ian Pawley's name has

L: printed at the head of most naval articles
P: printed at the head of most naval arkicles

L: " Oh , the Press , " said Seaweed . " Down here on business , Mr.
P: " Oh , the Pres : " said Benend " flown here on busines . Mr.

L: Bawley ? " " A pressman is always on the job . "
P: Bawlay ? " " A proveman is always on the jot : "

L: He held out his hand and John could not do
P: He held out his hand and Johen could not do

L: otherwise than take it . " Pleased to meet you ,
P: otherovise than take it . " pleased to srect you ,

L: Commander , " he said . " Now what about that
P: Comander , ' he said . " Now what about that

L: drink ? " John nodded - he could afford to buy
P: drinte ? ' Johen moded - he could aford to buy

L: one in return and he was lonely .
P: one in return and he was lorely .

L: " For the sake of accuracy , " he said , " and I
P: " for the sake of acuracy , ' he said , " and I know

L: know how you newspaper people value that commodity ! -
P: how your newspaper value that comodity ! -

L: please don't address me as Commander . I 'm
P: plense don't adres me as Comander . I'm

L: a Lieutenant-Commander . Perhaps we could
P: a Rientenant-Comander . Perhaps we could

L: drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You 're
P: drop the ramle - such a monthful ! " " You're

L: absolutely right , " said Bawley , as he pushed over
P: absolutely right , ' said Bawlay , as he pushed over

L: his glass . " Fill it up , darling . Accuracy above
P: his glus . '" Fil it up , darling . Acuracy above

L: all else . We pride ourselves about accuracy on
P: al dse . We pride ourselves about acuracy on

L: Ever known us bowl a wide about your Service ?
P: Ever known ws bout a wide about your Bervice d

L: Check and counter-check - nothing but the truth .
P: Checte and court-checte -nothing but the truth .

L: Somewhat embarrassing , what ? " " How can the
P: Bomenhut embarasing , what ? " " How can the

L: truth be embarrassing ? " John sipped his double
P: truch be emburosing . " John siped his double

L: gin with relish . It was his favourite brand ,
P: gin with rolish . Ie was his favourite forand .

L: he was on the verge of a new chapter in
P: he way on the verge of a new chapter in

L: his career , and his companion's attitude was
P: his carer , and his compasion's abtitude was

L: Life at home and in Bath had been a
P: libe at home and in Bath had ben an

L: trifle too comfortable and humdrum .
P: triple to comfortable and hundrun .

L: He 'd never before met a pressman and
P: Heid never before met a prosman and

L: found him curiously stimulating . " You 're a
P: found him curiously stimulating . ' Youre a

L: bit of a humorist , aren't you ? " said
P: bit of a humorist , areril you ? ' said

L: Bawley . " The truth is usually very embarra-
P: Bawlay . " The cruth is usualy very amburar

L: ssing . You 're in submarines , aren't you ? "
P: sing . Youre in submarines , aren't you s '

L: " You know a great deal about me , "
P: " Your fenour a great deal about one , '

L: " It 's my business . I 'll tell you more . You 're
P: " Hi 's my businery . Siul tel you more . You're

L: going to take over command of Pericles . Am I
P: going to take over comand of perides . Anm I

L: right ? " " Who told you ? " " Little bird .
P: right ? " " Who told you . ? " " Lixcle bird .

L: Other half ? " John nodded . " On me . " Bawley
P: Other half ? " Johen moded . " On me : Bawlay

L: shook his head . " All paid for by His Lordship , "
P: shote his fend . " Al paid for by this fordship "

L: he said . " Expense account . You 're a married
P: he said . " Exepense acount . Youre a maried

L: man with a couple of kids . Can't go wasting
P: man with a couple of feids . Canit yo warking

L: your substance on a complete stranger . Set
P: your substance on a complete stranger . But

L: John flushed . " I 'm not in need of charity . " " Come
P: Woher flushed . ' I 'm not in mud of charity . " Com

L: off it , " said Bawley . " The proprietor of the Daily
P: of it s ' sait Bawley . ' The propriter of the Paily

L: Courier knows what 's going on . If he doesn't mind ,
P: Comier knows what 's going on . If he loesnit mind ,

L: why should you ? " " I see . " John took the
P: why should you ? " " I gre . " Joten tok the

L: refilled glass and looked over the rim at his
P: refuled glas and loked ever the rim at hus

L: companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? "
P: companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ?'

L: " You misjudge me , " said Bawley . " You have
P: " Yu mispidge me , " said Bawly " You have

L: nothing to tell me , yet . But we 'll be meeting
P: nothing to tel mu yet . But wel be metings

L: again , no doubt , and then you will have .
P: agani , no doubst , and then you wil have

L: Regard this as a softening-up process , and
P: egard this as a softening up preas and

L: have dinner with me ? On His Lordship ,
P: have duiner with me . On ths Lordship ,

L: of course . " " On one condition , " said John .
P: of course . " " On one condition , " said Johen .

L: " Tell me who the little bird was . " " Can't
P: Fel me who the litle bid was . " " Caust

L: you guess ? Whose portrait appears regularly
P: yur ques ! Wose partrait apears regularly

L: " You mean Munyard ? " " Sure . Very useful
P: You mean bhuyard ? ' " Sure . Veny useful

L: contact , is our Robbie ; he gives us the gen and
P: contact , is our Robir ; he gives us the gen and

L: we give him the publicity . ' The Honourable
P: we guve heris the publicity . ' The Honeurable

L: " Robbie " and friend ' , what ? You know the
P: Robie " and friend ; what ? Yor knew that

L: sort of thing . " " You 'll get nothing out of me , "
P: sort of thing . " Youl get nothing out of me , '

L: said John , " but you can pay for my drinks
P: said Jchn , ' but you can pay for my chinks

L: if you want to , as long as you keep off
P: of you want to , as leny as you hep of

L: " Good-oh ! One for the grill-room , darling , and
P: " God-dl One for the quilt rom , dasting , and

L: tell George to bring in the 6carte du jour . "
P: tel Geage to bring in the bearle du jour . "

L: Bawley was a man of his word . He kept
P: Pawley was a manf his word . He kept

L: away from Service matters , was an excellent
P: away grom Servre maters , was an excelent

L: host and a splendid raconteur . The evening
P: hest and a splendid raconteur . The ening

L: passed all too quickly . As they parted in
P: pased al to quickly . As they parted in

L: the vestibule the two men were well
P: the vestibule , the two men were wel

L: disposed towards each other .
P: disposed towards one another .

L: " Ever been to Fleet Street ? " asked Bawley .
P: " Ever ben to Fhet Stret Pasked Bawly .

L: " You should . Next time you 're in Town
P: You should . Hiert time you're in Town

L: give me a ring at this number and I 'll
P: give me a ving at this number and I 'I

L: take you round the pubs where most
P: take you round to the pubs where most

L: of the work is done . " He held out a card .
P: of the work is done . ' He huld out a card .

L: John took it and put it in his pocket .
P: Ochn tok it and put it in his pocket .

L: " Thanks , " he said . " If ever my missus
P: 'hanks , " he said . " If ever my musus

L: lets me off the chain I 'll take you
P: lets me of the chain I l take you

L: Ever been out in a submarine ? I 'll give
P: Ever ben out in a submarine ? I 'l give

L: you a spin round one of these days , if you
P: you a spin round one of these days , if you

L: like . You could write it up . " Bawley made a face .
P: like . You could write it up . " Bawley made a face .

L: " Not in Pericles , old man . " " Why not ? "
P: " Not in Periles , old men . " " Why not ? "

L: " Better ask Robbie Munyard . " " What 's he been
P: " Beter ask Robic thumyard . " " What 's he ben

L: saying ? " John was furious . The little squirt !
P: saying ? " John was furious . The litle squint !

L: To go gassing to a newspaper man !
P: To go gusing to a newspaper man !

L: " Look ! " he went on earnestly . " You 're not going
P: " Rok ! " he went on earnestly . " for are not going

L: to write up Pericles in some way or other , are
P: to write up Poricdes in some way or other , are

L: you ? " " What is there to write up ? " said
P: you ? " " What is there to write up ? " said

L: Bawley . " There are forty-three submarines in
P: Pawlay . " There are forty - thre submarines in

L: the Navy - why should I pick on Pericles ? "
P: the Mary - why should D pick on Berikes ? "

L: John eyed him steadily . " It 's the Parcifal
P: Joln eyed him steadily . " It 's the Pouncifal

L: business , isn't it ? " he said quietly .
P: busines , isn't it ? " he said quetly .

L: " I don't want it to happen again , " said Bawley -
P: " I don't want it to hapen again , " said Bawley-

L: " more so than ever since I met you . "
P: " more so than ever since I met you . "

L: " What did Munyard say ? " " The Snort - hull
P: ' What did themyard say ? " " The Inort -hul

L: fitting fractured . " " Supposing I was to tell you that
P: fiting fractured . " " Suposing I was to tel you that

L: we 've had Pericles' entire Snort equipment removed
P: we ' we had bricles' entive Inort equipment removed

L: and X-rayed and that it was as sound as a bell ? "
P: and I-rayed and that it was as sound as a bel

L: " Munyard didn't tell me that . But I must confess
P: " Hungard didn't tel me that . But I must confers

L: I 'm relieved . But it still doesn't do away
P: I I 'm relieved . But it stil doesn't do away

L: with the possibility of faulty design . " He held
P: with the posibility of faulty design . " He held

L: out his hand . " Maybe I will take a trip with you
P: out his hand . " Maybe I wil take a trip with you

L: one of these days , " he said . " In the meantime
P: one of these days , ' he said . " In the meantine

L: I 'll tell my editor that the story 's a dead bird .
P: I' tel my editor that the story's aded bird .

L: Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring -
P: Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring-

L: any time - knock twice and ask for Bawley , what ? "
P: anytime-knod tvice and asd for Bawley , what ? '"

L: " I don't know when that will be , " said John .
P: ' I don't know when that wil be , " said fotin .

L: " I shall be busy for a while , cleaning up after
P: " I shal be busy for a while , cleaming up after

L: Master bloody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines ,
P: Master blody Hunyard . " THERE were six submarines ,

L: lying in pairs alongside the jetty at Fort Blockhouse .
P: lying in pairs alomgside the jely at Ford Rlacthouse ,

L: Black and grimly businesslike they both looked and
P: Plack and grimly businestike they both locked and

L: sounded , for all of them were rumbling as they
P: sounded , for al of them were rumbling as they

L: charged their electric batteries .
P: charged their electric buteries .

L: A light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhaust in
P: A light wind cafted the smoke of diesel extraust in

L: through the open windows of the Captain's house . It
P: through the open windows of the Coptain's house . It

L: pervaded every room but neither Harry nor Madeleine
P: perwaded every rom but meither Haury nor Madeleine

L: Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over
P: Purton moticed its existence as they sut in silence over

L: a substantial breakfast . Although usually a very
P: a subtantial breatfast . Although usualy a very

L: talkative lady Madeleine respected her husband's
P: talative lady Madeleine respected her husband 's

L: silences , for she knew they betokened a worry of
P: silences , for she knew they betodened a wory of

L: There had been many such breakfasts lately since the
P: There had ben many such brealfasts lately since the

L: affair of Parsifal . Harry had lost a good deal of weight .
P: aftair of Ponsital . Hanry had last a god deal of weght .

L: His normal placid and steady-going manner remained ,
P: His narmal placid and steadg-going masmover remrained ,

L: but she could see that it no longer came naturally .
P: but she could se that it no longer came naturaly .

L: It is the common lot of all Squadron Senior Officers
P: It is the comon lot of al Squadion tenior oficers

L: to experience such catastrophes as the loss of a submarine ,
P: to experience such catastrophes as the los of a submarine ,

L: though in peace time these happenings are few and
P: though in peace time these hapenings are few and

L: This is the testing time for all . The affair blows up into
P: This is the testing time for al . The aftair blows up into

L: a national disaster and then when it is all over life
P: a national disaster and them when it is al over life

L: must continue as before . During this period the Captain
P: must constinue as before . During this peried the Captain

L: must present an unruffled appearance and carry on as
P: must present an unufed apearance and cary on as

L: if nothing unusual has happened . Harry Turton had
P: if nothing unusual has hapened . Hary Purton had

L: written letters to the bereaved , had visited many in the
P: writen leters to the bereaved ,had visited many in the

L: locality , had been interviewed by the Press , had driven
P: locality , had ben interviewed by the Pres , had driven

L: his surviving submarines a good deal harder than
P: his serviving submarines a god deal harder than

L: usual and in fact had applied all the usual specifics
P: usual and in fact had aplied al the usual specities

L: He rode down to where I was waiting . I was
P: He rocle down to where I was wailing . I was

L: thinking what a skill he had for reading
P: thinling what a skil he had far reading

L: my mind . " This would be as good a place
P: ng mind . " This would he as goud a place

L: for a hold-up as any , " he said , reining in
P: for a hold-up as any , ' he said , raining in

L: near me . " Yes , " I said . " It 'll be here to-
P: new me . " Yes , " I said . " It l be nere to-

L: morrow as likely as not . " I paused . " Miss
P: morow as likely as not . " Ipauned . " Mis

L: Jeannie 'll be on that coach , Dan . "
P: Deanmie ' l be on that couch , Dan . "

L: " Yes , " he said . " I know . " " No harm must come
P: " Ves , " he said . '" Vorew . " " No horm must come

L: to her , Dan . " " She 'll be all right . It 's the
P: to her , Dan . " " She l he al right . It's the

L: men who 'll be after that coach I 'm interested
P: men whol be after that coach I 'm introsted

L: in , Johnny . " " I know . But if lead starts
P: in , Dohiny . " " I knw . But if lead sterts

L: flying she might be in danger . " " That 's so .
P: flying she might he in danyer " " Thart 3o .

L: But I reckon they 'll be too busy shooting at
P: But Irecdian they 'l he two buny chosting at

L: us to bother with the coach and the folks
P: us to bother witn the couch and the Cols

L: " Maybe , " I said . " But we 've got to remember
P: Tayhe , " I said . " But we 've jot to rememher

L: that girl all the time , Dan . I feel kind
P: that girl al the time , pan . I lel kind

L: of responsible for her . " " Of course , " he said ,
P: of resporisble for ner . " " Of course , " he said ,

L: giving me one of his strange looks . Then he
P: ging me one of his Nage lodes . Then he

L: turned the conversation . " Let 's ride over
P: turned the conversation . " Let's picde wber

L: and have a look at the mining camp .
P: and have a louk at the ming camp .

L: After all it 's them we 're supposed to be
P: After al itls them welse supored to be

L: working for , as well as the townsfolk and
P: wering for , as wel as the tomnslole and

L: With something of a start I remembered the
P: with somotling of a start I remanhered the

L: man who 'd brought us into this business .
P: man who'd bought us into this Genmens .

L: " Maybe you don't know about Appleton ,
P: a Hugle you don't know about Apletan ,

L: Dan ? " " Know what ? " " That he 's dead , "
P: bun ? " " know that ? ' " That ha s dead , "

L: I said . I watched him because I was always
P: I said . I watched him became I was always

L: fascinated by the way he looked when you
P: fascinated by the wary he loked when you

L: tried to surprise him . " Dead ? " he said . " Yes .
P: tried to surprive hin . " Pead ? " he said . " Yes ,

L: Dead . Shuffled out of the deck . Blasted
P: Sead . Shuled out of the dck . Blasled

L: down with a shotgun outside the Palace
P: down with a shotun outside the Palace

L: " Fenton or Somers , " he said . " Or the Town
P: " Tentan or lomers , ' he sid . " Or the iown

L: Marshal , " I added . His face was fixed ,
P: Marshal , " I aded . His face was fired ,

L: unreadable as a rock . " Let 's get over to the
P: unreadable as a roule . " Lets get over to the

L: mining camp , " he said abruptly . He wheeled
P: mining camp , " he said abpuptly . He wheled

L: his horse back off the trail and up the slope
P: his horse hack of the tail and up the depe

L: leading to the ridge . I followed . From the
P: reading to the ridye . I folowed , From the

L: top you could see something of the wild hill
P: top you could be something of the mild hil

L: country that lay all round Gilburg Crossing .
P: country that log al cound Giloung Groming .

L: The air was fresh and clear and you
P: The ouir was bresh and clear and yu

L: could see far over west and north for many
P: could se fur wert and worh for many

L: miles . The real high country of the Rockies
P: unles . The real high counly of the Rockies

L: lifted up in the distance like a pale water-
P: lifted up in the cistance Wie a pale waler-

L: colour drawing . Between us and that lay
P: Colowr drawing . Betwen us and that long

L: a vast stretch of hills , canyons , buttes and
P: a vest weth of hils , canpons , bules and

L: " The mine-workings lie north of the town , "
P: The mine-workings hie noth of the town , '

L: said Dan . " If we head west we ought to
P: said Dan . " If we head west we ought to

L: cut the trail leading from Gilburg to the north . "
P: cut the bail leacding bom gilay to the noth . '

L: So we swung west , making slow going over
P: So me swring west , making Now going over

L: rough country , sliding on shale , climbing down
P: rough county , oliding on shale , climbing down

L: into draws , circling a big mesa by a
P: mito draws , aircking a big man by a

L: four or five mile valley , sandy-floored . It
P: four ar live mile valing , sandy-floured . It

L: got hotter as the day wore on and we rested
P: gut haler as the doy ure on and he rosted

L: gratefully by a small creek where we watered
P: gratefuly by a smal wek where he watered

L: the horses and drank enough to cure our
P: the harses and drank gnough to cure owr

L: An hour's riding brought us to a trail that
P: An howr's sidig brought us to a tail that

L: we figured would lead to the miners' camp .
P: we lured would lead to the muers camp .

L: We turned north into it and after about four
P: We turned noth into it and alter about four

L: miles it led into a small canyon which
P: miles it int lunte a smul campon which

L: opened out into a wide shallow draw .
P: opened out into a mile shalow araw .

L: Here in a dried-up creek-bed we found
P: Htere in a driod-up crele-hed we fomel

L: the miners at work . They were scattered
P: the miners ct wor . They were ralered

L: over a fairly wide area working singly or
P: over a faing micde wea worling anyly or

L: We didn't approach unchallenged . Just short
P: We midn't aproach unchalenpal . But onot

L: of the diggings there was a roughly-built
P: of the cligings there was a roughly-buil

L: shack and as we got near someone inside bawled
P: shacke and as we jot new soreone insricl bended

L: out , " If you come any closer , I 'll sure blow
P: and , " If yu come any closer , I 'l sure blow

L: your whiskers off . " " Take it easy , mister , " I sang
P: your wtiskers of . " " Take it eary , mister , ' Wong

L: out . " We don't aim to come any closer and we 've
P: out . " We don't aim to come any clow and welve

L: got no whiskers so as you can see . Just you
P: gut no whrotes so as you can se . Ont you

L: go and tell Nick Dowd we 've come to talk
P: go and tel Wick Bound we 've come to talk

L: to him about what happened last night . "
P: to him abond what hapened lort niges . '

L: " Oh , " said the unseen guard . He blew a
P: On , " said the usen guard . He blew a

L: whistle then , loud and shrill . The gun barrel
P: whrotle then , lond and shil . The gu borel

L: peeking out through a hole in the shack never
P: peking out though a hole in the chack never

L: wavered . We sat our horses , waiting . " Looks as
P: wavered . We gut our horses , waity . " Louks us

L: though they 're expecting trouble , " I said . " Where
P: though they're expecty trouble , " I said . " Where

L: there 's gold and women there 's always trouble , "
P: there I gild and women there's alwags trouble ;

L: observed Dan , shifting about in his saddle . He
P: observed san , hify about in his sudle . He

L: Mr. Copthorne knew a way round by the side
P: Mr. Copthome knas a way round by the side

L: of the church where there was a small open
P: of the church where there was a smal open

L: outbuilding where the grave digger kept his spades
P: outlimilding where the gravediger lept his spades

L: and forks and tidying up implements . It might
P: and farls and tidying up implements . At might

L: be open . It was . He entered , and seated himself
P: be open . It was . He entered , and reated himsel

L: in a huddle upon an upturned wheelbarrow .
P: in a hundle upon an uptumed whelbarow .

L: His curious headgear fell off . Strange things
P: this curions headgeas fel of . Strauge thing

L: were going on in his bewildered brain . When
P: were going on in his bewildered brain . When

L: a man was drowning and towards his last
P: a man was drowning and towards his last

L: gasp it was scientifically supposed his whole
P: gaup it was acientificaly suposed his whole

L: life came up before him in some cinematic
P: life came up before him in some ciremetic

L: Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church
P: Mr. Copthorne was on cry laud in a church #

L: outbuilding , but this was happening to him now . He
P: outbuilding . but this was hopaning to him now . He

L: saw himself as a sulky , ugly , malformed , repressed
P: saw humself as a suly , ugly , mlformed , represed

L: boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing
P: boy , then a young youth . Her saw himself refusing

L: baptism according to the sect his parents belonged to .
P: beptiom acording to the sect his parents blouget to .

L: Walking out of the chapel later on . Continuing
P: Walking out of the chopel later on Continuing

L: on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-
P: on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-

L: canery and corruption , the growth of the dea-
P: canery and cormuption , the growth of the dea-

L: dly decadence and absorption in debase-
P: dly decadence and absorption in debase-

L: ment and Satanic debauchery .
P: ment and Satamic debanchery .

L: He didn't know what to make of it , but it
P: the didn't know what to make of it , but it

L: was Mr. Copthorne all right . Perhaps he had
P: was Mr. Copthorne al right . Perhops he had

L: been attending some kind of fancy dress do
P: ben atending some kind of fancy dres do

L: in London . Very strange his eyes looked . Mad ,
P: in London . Very strange his eyes loked . Mad ,

L: hunted eyes , as if the poor fellow had rocks in
P: hunted eyes , as if the por felow had voeks in

L: his head , so the verger described afterwards .
P: his head , so the verger discribed ofter wards .

L: " You 're very early about , sir , " he said , trying to
P: " You've very early about , sir , " he said , trying to

L: " Yes . I travelled down from London
P: i lfes . Itraneled oloen from deaden

L: as the dawn was breaking , and
P: as the down was breading , and

L: the thought came to me I 'd like
P: the thoeght come to me I'd like

L: to take a look at the church . I 've
P: ta take a lok at thechurch . T e

L: never been inside . Very remiss of
P: rever ben unesce . Elege r

L: me , " said Mr. Copthorne . The verger
P: one , " #t Mr. Copefelence . The eger

L: led the way in . " The stained glass
P: led the way in . " The staine glas

L: windows , sir , they date back to
P: suindos , Sir , they clate hek to

L: the fourteenth century . "
P: the facarlenel centerey . "

L: There were few passengers on the plane and Gavin was
P: there were few pasengers on the plane and Gavin was

L: quickly through the customs . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl
P: quikly through the customs . " bay ! " " Gavin ! ' The girl

L: and her luggage had disappeared and they were alone
P: and her lugage had disapeared and they were done

L: together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the
P: together . The porter brought bavin's bay out to the

L: taxi . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin pressed her
P: tami. , dust a moment , darling , " Gavin presed her

L: hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the
P: hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the

L: Gay went out to the waiting
P: Gay went aut to the weiting

L: taxi , and then found that in
P: taki , and then found that in

L: the excitement of meeting
P: the excitement of meting

L: Gavin she had left her sun-
P: Gevin she hod left her sum-

L: glasses on the veranda . She
P: glases on the verancece . She

L: went quickly back to fetch them .
P: went opeicly back to fetclthem .

L: Gavin and the girl who had got
P: gavin and the girl who hao got

L: off the plane with him were talking .
P: of the plane with him were taling .

L: He was writing something in his
P: He was writing something in leis

L: pocket-book , with a sick feeling
P: pocket-bok , with a side feling

L: of despair Gay knew that of course
P: of despair Jay knew that of course

L: Gay , sitting opposite Gavin on the terrace could
P: Tay , sithing oposite Gavin on the terace could

L: hardly believe that she was the same girl ,
P: hardly belieive that she was the some gial ,

L: miserable , shy , who had sat at the little
P: misurable , sly , who had sot at the letler

L: table for the first time a few days ago .
P: table for the first time a few days ago .

L: Gavin raised his glass to her and smiled
P: Gavin raised his alars to her and smiled

L: and Gay's heart turned over . " I 'd like
P: and Day's lead turned over . " I 'd lho

L: to do that . " Gavin drained his glass
P: to do that . " Gavin drained his glans

L: " And then we 'll go for a stroll along the
P: " And then we 2e go for a strol along the

L: beach . A moon like this mustn't be wasted . "
P: beach . A man like this mustn't be wasted . "

L: He gestured towards the bay where the full
P: He geshured towards the bay where the ful

L: moon was just rising over the rocks , then
P: mon was just rising over the rods , then

L: laid his hand on hers . Gay smiled at him
P: Caid his hand on les . Gay auiled at him

L: again , happy beyond belief , knowing that
P: again , hapy beyand belief , unowing that

L: now Gavin was in love with her and her
P: now Gavin was in Cove wither 8 her

L: only , yet remembering for a second the
P: Only , yet remambering for a socond the

L: kisses she had seen him giving Elaine .
P: Lisoes she had pen him giving claine .

L: All that was part of the past , she would put it behind her . She
P: Al that was part of the past , she would put it behind ther . The

L: would never be jealous again , would even take Larry's advice and
P: would never be yeadous again , would even take Pary's advice and

L: look the other way if need be . " I say ! " Gavin was looking over her
P: lok the other way if ned be . " I say " Gaminuas loking over her

L: shoulder . " That 's a pretty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Isn't she
P: shoulder . That 's a pretly gil ! " Gay glanced betind her , , Ionit the

L: lovely , she 's French , a very well known model I believe .
P: lovely , she 's Trench , a very wel know moded I believe .

L: Gay , a little puzzled , went through
P: Gay , a litle pusgled , went theough

L: to the bar . Doc and Lilyan were
P: to the bae . doc and hilyan were

L: sitting just inside having coffee .
P: siting just inside having cofe .

L: " Come and join us and bring your
P: " Come and join us and being youe

L: boy friend , " Doc called . " No , Doc ! "
P: boy friend . " Do caled . " No , Doc . ! "

L: Lilyan remonstrated . " They want to be
P: filyan remonsteated . " They want to be

L: alone . " " I 've booked a table at the
P: alone . " " I 've loked a table at the

L: tonight so come and join us if you
P: tonight so come and join us if you

L: can't find a table for two . "
P: can't fiund a table for two . "

L: The others were all dancing and
P: The others were al dancing and

L: as Gay drew out a chair and sat
P: as fay drew out a chaie and sast .

L: down Gavin , without a word , swept
P: cown favien , without a woed , swept

L: Simone on to the floor . " It doesn't mean
P: Simone on to the floce . ' It doesn't weare

L: anything , " Gay told herself desperately ,
P: anything , " Jay told herself despacately ,

L: trying to understand Gavin's point of
P: teying to bnderstand fawin point of

L: view and remembering the advice
P: View and remembering the advice

L: that Larry had given her , while she
P: that docey had given her , while she

L: felt wretched beyond words .
P: felt wetched beyourd woeds .

L: Gay thanked him and walked out on to
P: Gay tankedhim and wolked out on to

L: the terrace thinking that perhaps Gavin
P: te texrace tinking that perhaps gavini

L: had bought a drink and taken it outside .
P: cadbought a drink and taken it outside .

L: She looked round scanning the tables ,
P: the coked round scamning the tables ,

L: then caught her breath , a cold hand
P: then caught her beate , a cold hand

L: seeming to clutch her heart . Gavin was
P: sceting to ceuld ei exar . gawin was

L: seated at a small table in a shadowy
P: seated of a smal tobe in a sladowy

L: corner talking animatedly to Simone .
P: corer talking quimatedly to simone .

L: As Gay watched he offered the girl a
P: as gay warched ax ofered the girl a

L: cigarette and lit it , his hands cupping
P: cigarete and lit it , eis lands cuping

L: hers in an intimate way .
P: lnos in an intiruate way

L: Gay stood irresolute for a moment , half
P: gay stod iresolute for a moment , eoef

L: decided to go back and join Lilyan and
P: decided to go back and join lieyon and

L: Doc , while she wanted to do no more than
P: 0O0 , while she wanted to do no more thow

L: run upstairs to her room , knowing that
P: ren upstairs to ker rom , tanowing that

L: Gavin although he had told her that he
P: gavin athough be had told le that he

L: loved her , was already flirting with a girl
P: lovedher , was already feirting wite a girl

L: that he had only met a few minutes before .
P: tearle eod only met a few minutes before .

L: Larry's advice flashed through her mind ,
P: cory's advice feasked through her mind ,

L: but she turned away , giving a little
P: but sheturned away , giving a lite

L: gesture of hopelessness , knowing that her
P: gesture of Ropelesmen , konowing reater

L: His behaviour was not only boorish and in the worst of
P: His behavious was not only baurih and the worst of

L: taste but it was unkind beyond words . She fumbled
P: take but it was untind bepond words . The fumbled

L: with the cigarette packet which lay on the table
P: with the cigarate packet which lay on the table

L: not wanting to smoke but needing some action
P: not wanting to moke but neding some action

L: to help her control her feelings . " Come and
P: to help her control her facling : . '" Come and

L: dance , " Doc's cheery voice came as a
P: dance , " Dou's chery woice came as a

L: lifeline and Gay got up quickly , mana-
P: lifeline and buy got up quickly , mana-

L: As he swung her on to the floor Gay saw Gavin
P: As he swung her on to the flor bay sow bavin

L: and Simone go through the doorway that led
P: and Simne go through the dourmary that led

L: down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a
P: down to the beach . Cay closed her eyes for a

L: moment in disgust . She was fully aware that Gavin
P: moment in disgust . She was fuly aware that lain

L: would make love to the French girl on the sands ,
P: would make lose to the French girl on the sands ,

L: and no doubt he would come back soon and
P: and no doubst he would came back son and

L: after Simone had left expect her to accept his
P: after Simone had left expect her to acept his

L: kisses on the way back to the hotel .
P: lises on the way back to the tratel .

L: Sentence Database P02-109
P: 2 t Dth pol-103

L: " And that 's the man whom you have been eating your
P: ' And that 's the man whom yor have ben esting gor "

L: heart out over ? " Doc nodded towards the door . " You
P: heat out over ? ' Doc noded towards the dor . " You

L: may consider him a man , I would say he was a
P: may consider him a man , I would say he was a

L: mentally adolescent cad . " " Oh , Doc ... " Gay protested
P: montaly adescent cad . " " Oh , Doc . . bay protested

L: weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I 've only met him
P: weakly , " you don't know bavin . " " I 've only met him

L: today but I think I can safely say that I know
P: today but I think I can sately say that I know

L: him a great deal better than you do . "
P: him a great deal beter than you do . "

L: Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up
P: Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up

L: Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing
P: Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing

L: yourself away on a chap like that . You 're a
P: yourself away on a chap like that . Vouive a

L: fine girl , intelligent , and pretty , and I had
P: fime girl , inteligent , and prety , and I had

L: thought you were sensible too . Don't
P: thought you were sensible to . Don't

L: make a fool of yourself over someone
P: make a fol of yourself over someone

L: who doesn't care two jots for your feelings .
P: who doesn't care two jols for your felings .

L: If he behaves like this now what is your
P: If he behaves like this now what is your

L: married life going to be like ?
P: maried life going to be like ?

L: Hell . " Doc answered for her . " Just Hell . Never able to
P: tld . " Doe answered for her . " Just Hel . Never able to

L: trust him out of your sight and having to put on
P: trust him out of your sight and having to put on

L: a brave face and pretend that you don't mind
P: a buave face and pretend that you doult mind

L: whenever he flirts with another woman . He will
P: Whenever he flints with anther sveman the wil

L: you know , always , and you aren't the type
P: you know , always , and you aven't the tyse

L: who is tough enough to change him . "
P: who is tough enough to change him . "

L: Gay nodded . " I know that you 're right Doc , I think
P: bay moded . " I know that youi're right Rere , I think

L: now that I do realise that , and in any case , " she added
P: never that I do realive that , and in any care ; the aded

L: a little sadly , " if I did change Gavin , he wouldn't
P: a litle o radly , ' if I did change bain , he wouldit

L: be the same , if you know what I mean . " " You sound
P: be the same , if you knowo what I mean ! " You round

L: like Alice in Wonderland , " Doc gently mocked her , " and
P: like lilice in Manderland , ' Bex gently mocked her ; and

L: I 'm glad you 're beginning to see that you 're wasting
P: I 'm glad youire begining to se that youire wasting

L: Now let him go and you won't have to wait
P: Now let him go and you won't have to wait

L: long for the right man for you to come
P: long for the right man for you to come

L: along . If I was thirty years younger and weren't
P: along . If I was thirly years younger and weren't

L: married to the sweetest wife in the world
P: maried to the swetest wife in the world

L: I 'd marry you myself . " Gay laughed , Doc was
P: I'd mary you myself . " Cay laughed . Dox was

L: so kind and nice and she hoped that one
P: so kind and nice and she hoped that one

L: day she would be able to see the situation
P: day she would be able to se the situation

L: as it obviously appeared to everyone else .
P: as it obviously apeared to everyone else .

L: Doc asked Lilyan to dance and once
P: Dox asked bilyan to dence and ance

L: again Gay found herself alone at the table
P: again Gay found herself alone at the table

L: feeling self-conscious and awkward , sure that
P: beliney self-conscions and autward , some that

L: people were talking about the way Gavin
P: people were talking about the eay Gain

L: was behaving since they had seen them
P: was beheving since they had sen them

L: dining together . She opened her bag
P: eleising togetes . She opened her boy

L: to get out her compact and saw Grace's
P: to get out he compact and sew Grace's

L: letter . She drew it out and opened it ,
P: leter . She cew it outs and ropened it ,

L: glad to be able to occupy herself .
P: glad to be able io ocupy herself .

L: " So glad that you are having such a lovely time , dearie , "
P: " So glad that you are having such a lovely lime , dearie , "

L: it ran . " Your cards are lovely . I rang up Miss Harland
P: it man . " Youn cands are fovely . I rang up this Marland a

L: and have been over to sit with her father and do what
P: and have ben oven to sit with her fatlen and do what

L: I can for him so that she can get out to do her shopping .
P: I can for him so that she can get out to do hen shaping .

L: He 's getting on well but is pretty helpless still with his
P: He 's geting on wel but is pratly halples stilf with his

L: No other news except that Elaine is engaged
P: No other news except Claine is engaged

L: and going to marry a foreigner ... "
P: and going to mary a foreignet . "

L: Gay read the rest of the letter then put
P: bay read the rest of the later put

L: it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged ,
P: it back in her bay . E laine was engaged ,

L: to the man she had spent so much time
P: to the mas she had spent so much timse

L: with at her party . That was why
P: With at ber party . That was wtoy

L: Gavin had come back to her .
P: bavin had come back to ket .

L: Everything was quite clear now , and to
P: Everyting was quite clear now , and to

L: her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak ,
P: her owen suprise bay felt no heartbreak ,

L: rather a sense of relief now that she
P: rather a sense of relief now that she

L: knew why Gavin had come to see
P: Inew why Gavin had comne to se

L: Because she was second best . The others came back
P: Because she was secand best . The others came back to

L: to the table , all of them making a fuss of her and at once
P: The table , al of them matins a fues of her and at one she

L: she felt happier . Gay loved them for their warm sympathy ,
P: felt hapier . Bay boved them for their warn sumpaty ,

L: knowing that they were real friends , even if they were new ones .
P: knowing that thep were real , even it they were new ones

L: " That is a pretty dress , " Lilyan commented , obviously sensing
P: ' That is a pretly ctrers ' , ( its an comented , obviouly seaing

L: Gay's distress and in a way that Doc , as a man , could not
P: bay's dister and in a way that Doe , as a ron , could not

L: understand , knowing that Gay was as much ashamed
P: understond , knowing That boy was as much ashamnd

L: for Gavin at the way he was behaving as she
P: For goin at the way he was Behaving as she

L: " I made it myself , " Gay tried to speak
P: I I made it mysef , " Glay tried to speak

L: Diana Wills often sat on the brand
P: Priana Wils often sat on the brand

L: new seat outside the hospital
P: men seat ontside the hospitonl

L: gates and thought vagrant
P: gatus and thought eagrant

L: thoughts . At one time she had
P: theughts . At one time she had

L: watched the workmen constructing
P: wakched the cantmen constncting

L: the roundabout , which was
P: the round-abent , which was pt

L: to put St. John's Casualty Department
P: to put St. John's Casnalty Department

L: out of operation - in theory , at
P: ant of epuation - in theany , at

L: least . She would think of her-
P: least . She would think of hen-

L: self as a stranger in these parts
P: self as a stranger in these parts

L: studying these cross-roads . Which
P: stundying these crosreads . Which

L: " If I were a tramp I would simply blow a
P: It I were a tramp " would simpls blow a

L: feather , " she decided , rather envying the gentle-
P: feather , ' she decided , rather enying the gentle

L: man of the road his freedom of decision , and
P: man of the road his fredom of decision , and

L: wishing life would sometimes allow serious-minded
P: wishing life would sometives alow serious-minded

L: women doctors to blow a feather and follow its
P: women dectors to blow a feather and Falow its

L: airy directions accordingly . " If I were needing a
P: asry directions acordongly . " If I were medong a

L: job I 'd go to London , of course , " she went on .
P: job I 'd go to London , of course , " she went on :

L: " There are all sorts of wonder-
P: " There are al sorts of wonder-

L: ful jobs in London and I could
P: ful jobs in London and I could

L: take my pick , whereas in Yarmouth
P: talse my picls , whereas in Hamouth

L: one has to know something about fishing
P: on has to know something about fishing

L: and in Liverpool they 'd want sea-farers .
P: and in liverpol they'd want sea-facers .

L: I don't think I 'd go to Edinburgh un-
P: I don't thitr I a go to Edinburgh in-

L: less I was a Scot and wanting to get
P: les I was a scot and wenting to get

L: home , or perhaps a student studying to
P: home , or perhaps a student studying to

L: be a doctor , and I already know
P: be a dlocfor , and I already know

L: She was engaged to Nigel , had been for two years .
P: She was engaged to Nigel , had ben for two years .

L: Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get married " ,
P: Sometimes they talned on the theme of " when we ger maned ' ,

L: and then all was wonderful , and perhaps it had only been
P: and them al was wonderne , and peraps it had any ben

L: a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last
P: a slip of the tongue when Nigel had waid , only last

L: evening , " If we get married , old girl , you 'll have to stop
P: evering , " If we gor maned , old give , you l have to wtop

L: She couldn't remember what they had been talking about or
P: the couldn't nemumbr what they had ben talking about in

L: which ' lark ' she would have to stop , only that significant tiny
P: which " bauld she would have to tip , only that rymificant timy

L: word shouted into her very soul a horn of warning , and
P: ward tlunted into her vary sant a hum of marning , and

L: with it was coupled a disembodied fragment of information ,
P: with it was coupled a avumhodied frayment of infreuation ,

L: which now took on an ominous significance : Nigel had been
P: which now # tok an ominons squificance . Wigd had ben

L: seen in Farlingham on an occasion he had sworn he had
P: ren in Faslinghaln on an ocasion he had swan he had

L: been standing in for Luke Parsons at his surgery in
P: tan standing in for luke fartmns at his surpey in

L: Now Nigel had every right to go where he
P: How Higel had every right to go where he

L: liked during his off-duty periods
P: liked #during his of-duty periols

L: when she was not free ; this much they had
P: when she was not fre ; this much they had

L: conceded one to the other . They rarely
P: conceded one to the other . They rarely

L: found they were off duty together , and
P: found they were of duty together , and

L: the situation would have been intolerable
P: the situation would have den intoleradle

L: had there not been some give and take
P: had there not ben given and take

L: about their relationship . So when Nigel
P: about their relationship . So when Nigel

L: had told her about taking Luke's
P: had told her about taking Cutre's

L: evening surgery she had said ,
P: evening surgery she had said ,

L: " Bless you ! I hope Luke is suitably grateful , darling . " " Oh , well , "
P: " Beas son ! I hore luke is suirngus comretul , Araines . " " Ot , wa , -

L: he shrugged diffidently , " I like the work . One gets plenty
P: the sravens sifidatus , n I live ThE work . One arers pr

L: of variety and it 's a change . " Nigel was the hospital's
P: of unares ano tris a arale . A Miase was the rospirm's

L: Junior Medical Officer . " You won't be free about nine , I
P: Guice masion opfrice . " Yon Nowt # # maur ine , I

L: suppose , to meet me for supper somewhere ? " she had
P: suprort , to mext me fore supre domentece ? " At tho

L: " Hardly likely , my sweet . Luke's surgery goes on for
P: ' Hundly likely , my swet . Luke's surgery goes on for

L: hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even
P: hows . If they get in before eight-thirty , even

L: though they 're standing on one another's toes ,
P: though they'se standing on one another's toes ,

L: I 've got to see 'em . If I am free , though ,
P: I ve got to se en . It I am fre , though ,

L: I 'll give you a ring , O.K. ? " O.K. , " she had
P: I 'l give you aring . G.k. ? " U.L. , ' she had

L: replied readily . So how could Nigel have
P: replied readily . So how could Wigel have

L: been at the Load of Trouble roadhouse ,
P: ben at the load of Trouble road house ,

L: dancing with a blonde at eight-thirty that
P: dlancing with a blonde at eight thity that

L: " No , " she told Phil Gubbins , a junior
P: " No , ' she told Phil Gublins , a junion

L: houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you saw ,
P: houseman , , it wasn't Higel you sow ,

L: my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway .
P: my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway .

L: NUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car
P: AUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car

L: to somebody , Phil . He 's always doing that . "
P: to romebody , Thil . He's always doing that . "

L: Young Gubbins shrugged . " I didn't see his
P: Young Gubias shruged . " I didn't se his

L: face , Di , but it certainly looked like
P: face , Di , but it certainly loked like

L: Nigel from the back . D.j. and all .
P: Nigel from the back . D. ;. and al .

L: Of course such as I couldn't afford
P: Of course such as D coulden't aford

L: to go into the Load of Trouble . "
P: to go into the load of Prouble . '

L: But after that slight slip of the tongue on Nigel's part she had
P: But after that slight dip of the tongure on ligel's past she had

L: realised it was important enough for her to have remembered , and it
P: realised it was important enough for her to have rementered , and it

L: was as though a red mist veiled her usually clear sight and
P: was as though a red mist weiled her usualy clear sight and

L: made her think there was an abyss immediately ahead .
P: made has think these was an alyes imediately ahead .

L: " Nigel , " she had besought him , " you know that evening
P: " Wigel , " she had besought him , " you lnow that evening

L: you took Luke Parson's surgery and there was a woman
P: you tech Lake Parson's surgery and there was a woman

L: with a cyst on her ear ... ? "
P: with a cyst on hes ea . ? "

L: " 5Ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kissed her on the
P: "sye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and teised her on the

L: mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge .
P: mounth , an act of deuvation he didn't over-indulge .

L: " What about it , my sweet ? " " Well , " she laughed
P: ' What about it , my swet ? " " Wel , ' she laughed

L: suddenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid
P: sudenly in an upsurging of relef , ' that stupid

L: Gubbins boy thought he saw you at the Load of Trouble .
P: Bulbins boy thought he saw you at the doad of Trouble .

L: With a blonde , too . Imagine ! " Nigel was frowning . He
P: With a blonde , to . Amagine ! " Thigel was frowming . He

L: looked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly
P: loked distonguished when he frowned ; boyishly

L: " Gubbins ? Gubbins ? " he fretted . " Who 's he ? "
P: " Cubins ? Gubins ? ' he freter . ' Who's he ? "

L: Though Diana knew the name of every
P: Though Diane hmen the name of every

L: member of the staff , distinguished or not ,
P: member of the stat , oxistinguishent or not .

L: Nigel often had to think hard to sort
P: Nigel often had to think havoe to sont

L: them out . " He 's the carrotty lad , isn't he ? "
P: them out . " We 's the canotry lace , isi't he s "

L: he now demanded . " What was he
P: he mon cemancede . " What was be

L: doing at the Load of Trouble ? "
P: aloring at the Load of Trouble ? "

L: I 'm going with a shooting party . What else can I do
P: im going with a shosting party . What else can l do

L: at this time of year ? I can't ask you up because it 's
P: at this time of year ? I can't ask youp because it 's

L: a strictly stag affair . " " I know . I didn't expect ... " " Well ,
P: a strictly stay aftai . " " I know . I didn't expect . . Wel ,

L: don't keep hinting , then . You wish you could
P: don't kep hinking , then . Yon with you could

L: come with me ; you hope I 'll miss you ; you
P: rome with me ; you hope I 'l mis you ; you

L: can't imagine the hospital without me for
P: can't imapine the hospital without me for

L: three weeks , etcetera , etcetera ! "
P: thre weks , elcelesa , elcelera 1 .

L: Her figure was small and exquisite , like a schoolgirl's still , and
P: Her figure was smal and exquisite , the a sthrolgisl's stil , and

L: he admired her legs , which the male sex were inclined to
P: he admired hor legs , which the male nox wore indined to

L: regard first . " I would mind if you didn't " he told her
P: regord first . ' I would mind if you didn't ' he tad her

L: grimly , and tugged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're
P: ginly , and tuged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're

L: right , pet . I do need this leave . I 'm bad-tempered and
P: right , pet . I do med this heure . I 'm Ged-tempered and

L: broody and going out with brash blondes . I don't deserve
P: brody and gring out with brosh blondes . I don't desire

L: " Darling ! " her voiced caressed him . " Moments like this
P: Barling her voiced caresed him . " Haments like this

L: make all the waiting worth while . When we 're
P: make al the waiting worth while . When we're

L: married we won't have these explosions of emotion ,
P: maried we won't have these explesions of emotray

L: will we ? " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish we
P: wil we ? " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish we

L: were married , Di . Like a patient wishes his operation
P: were marned , Di, like a patent wokes his operation

L: was over . " Again her laughter trilled . " Marriage
P: was over . " Again her laughtes triled . " Mariage

L: isn't as bad as an operation , Nigel ! "
P: But as lad as an operation . Nigel ! '

L: " Isn't it ? " he rose and smoothed himself
P: " Isni't it ! " he rose and smothed himself

L: down . " Ask any bridegroom-to-be . Anyhow ,
P: down . " Ash any bridegromtobe . Anylow ,

L: that particular problem isn't looming at
P: that particular problem isn't loming at

L: the moment , thank God ! " Problem ... ?
P: the moment , thask God ! " Problem . ? .

L: looming ... ? " Are we discussing a marriage
P: loming . ? " Ase we discusing a meriage

L: or a burial ? " she asked , hardly believing
P: or a burial ! ' she asked , hardly believing

L: he could be serious . " Surely marrying
P: he could be seriows . " Surely marying

L: me isn't going to be all that bad ?
P: me isn't going to be al that bad ?

L: If it is - " she laughed uncertainly - " you can have
P: If it is - " she laughed uncertainly - " you can have

L: your ring back . " She loosened the half-hoop of
P: your ring bock . ' she basened the haly - hop of

L: diamonds on her left hand third finger and held it
P: dinmonds on her up hand third finger and hud it

L: out to him , still playfully . Without a glimmer
P: but to him , shil playquly . Withaut a ghimer

L: of amusement in his own eyes , however , he took
P: of unusement in his own eyes , nowever , he tok

L: it , looking moodily beyond her . " Perhaps it 's as
P: it , loking modily beyand Mer . " Perhaps it 's as

L: well if you don't wear it for a bit , Di , " he
P: wal if you don't wear it for a bit , Di , " he

L: " But I want it ! " she protested . " It 's my ring . "
P: ' But I want it ch protented . It 's my ring . '

L: " You just gave it back to me . " " I
P: " Your guest gave it back to me " " )

L: didn't ! I was joking . You know I was
P: diston't ! . I was joting . Jou know I was

L: joking , Nigel . " " You shouldn't joke
P: poting , "njd " " You shouldn t joter

L: about serious things like engagements . "
P: avout serious things like engaguments . "

L: " Don't be such a baby ! " They were going
P: " pon't be such a baby ; " they were goings

L: to have an open quarrel
P: to have an ope guarmed any

L: any minute , and she knew it .
P: minch , and she conew it .

L: Almost in desperation she appealed , " Will you meet
P: Almost in desperation she apealed , " Wil you met

L: me at the gate , four o'clock tomorrow ? " " Why ? " he
P: me at the gate , four ocleck tomorow ? " " Why ? " he

L: enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring
P: enquired , combing his thick , towny hair . " To bring

L: me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I 'll see , "
P: me up for tea , of course . I just thouoght " Sil se ;

L: he told her , and suddenly seized her in an embrace
P: he told her , and sudenly seized her in an embace

L: which really hurt . " Without your ring it 's just like
P: which realy hurk . " Without your ring it 's just like

L: kissing somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,
P: Lising somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,

L: and kissed her again , somewhat startled to
P: and kised her again , somewhat statled to

L: receive a sharp slap for his pains .
P: receives a shorp slap for his pains .

L: " If I were somebody else's girl that 's
P: " If It wore somebody elsie's girl that's ,

L: what you 'd get , " she flashed at him , and
P: Wat you'd get , ' she flashed at him , and

L: so had left him , on her dignity and not
P: so had left him , on her dignity and not

L: seeing the look of admiration and revelation
P: seing the lok ofadmiration and revelation

L: which had followed her slim young figure
P: Which had folowed lier slim young figure

L: out of his sight . " Mine , " Nigel Lester had
P: out of his sight . " Hine ; " Wigel hester had

L: decided with a sigh of satisfaction , and
P: decided with a sigh of sefisfactionpand

L: then regarded the ring which he retrieved
P: I then regarded the ring which he retrieved

L: from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded ,
P: from his pocket . ' It a price , " he conctuded ,

L: with some bitterness .
P: with some biternes .

L: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now
P: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now

L: Diana was trailing up the gravelled drive to the hospital
P: Piana was trailing up the graveled drive to the hosptal

L: alone . Of course one couldn't say for certain when a
P: alone . Of course one couldn't suy for certain when a

L: doctor would be free during the day ; tea was served
P: doctor would be fre duving the duy ; ten was served

L: from four until five-thirty in the residents' common-
P: from four until five-thirty in the residents' comon-

L: room , which proved the elasticity of medical commitments .
P: rom , which proved the elasticity of medical comitments .

L: Something had cropped up which required Nigel's attention ,
P: Something had croped up which regured Nigh's atention ,

L: she was convinced , or he would have granted her small request
P: she was convinced or would have granted her smal reyrest

L: Sentence Database P03-189
P: interace Datakase p05- 19

L: They often had such a rendezvous , for
P: They aften had such a rendegrans , for

L: there was just time to smoke a cigarette ,
P: there was just time to smoke a cigarete ,

L: if one walked slowly , between road and
P: if are walkel slansly , betwen road and

L: His mouth hardened , his eyes became
P: This month hardened , his eyes became

L: steely . ' I see . ' Scorn lashed his
P: stely . I se . Scorn lasked his

L: words . ' I wonder you dared trust
P: words . ' I tands you dared trust

L: him to my care . ' ' Nicholas - '
P: him to my care " Nicholas . '

L: ' Well ! At least I know the truth .
P: " Wel ! At least I know the truth .

L: Truth ! ' His gaze held hers
P: Truth ! ' Shis gage held hers

L: masterfully . ' You wanted it so
P: Masterfuly . ' You wanted it so

L: badly - at any price . I hope
P: badly . at any priece . Thope

L: you are satisfied . '
P: you are satisfied .

L: And as he spoke , the thought
P: And as hepoke , the thought

L: of Philip lying in the other
P: of Philip lyin , in the ofhes

L: room filled him with a re-
P: rom teled tim with a re.

L: vulsion that was homicidal .
P: voulation that washomocidal .

L: Even in that , his hands were
P: Even in thal , himstands were

L: tied . He dare not precipitate
P: tied . He doure not precpitate

L: what might well be another
P: what might wel be anothes

L: coronary . And in that second
P: Cosonary And inthat rsecond

L: he put back his professional
P: he put ack hisprofesional

L: mantle , and said with such
P: mantle , and said with such

L: icy politeness , such withdrawn
P: cey poltenes , such withchear

L: ' I will leave you the necessary pre-
P: ' I wil leave yorthenecesary pre-

L: scription for the sedatives . You
P: scriptions for the sedatives . Yor

L: will contact your new doctor
P: wil contact yousher do a

L: when you reach your parents'
P: whenyon reach bous parents '

L: house . ' She watched him flick
P: House . ' Shewatched him flick

L: his fountain-pen from his
P: his fountain-perfrom his

L: waistcoat pocket , take out
P: waistcoat pocket , take out

L: his # prescription pad , and
P: li # prescrption pad , and

L: # scribble on it . Then ,
P: scrible on it . Then ,

L: with a gesture she knew so well ,
P: with a gesture she knew so wel ,

L: he tore off the leaflet and
P: te tame of the leaflet and

L: ' Good-bye , Sandra , ' he said
P: " God-bye , Sandra , he saind

L: with a deadly finality . Watching
P: with a deadly finality . Watling

L: him go , unable to speak , she
P: him go , unableto spreak , she

L: felt that part of her was leaving
P: felt that part of her was leavin g

L: him . She couldn't hate him ...
P: him . The coulden't hate him .

L: If only he would have con-
P: If only he would have con-

L: fided in her , given some expla-
P: ficled her , given some expla-

L: nation . Now there was no-
P: nation . Now there was no-

L: thing - not even friendship .
P: thing - not even faienhip .

L: She went back to Philip . But
P: the went back to Philip . But

L: all she could hear were Nicholas's
P: al she could hear were Wicholan's

L: words : ' I love you - oh , you
P: warls : I love you -oh , you

L: know that well enough . '
P: know that wel enough . '

L: Love . She revolted against
P: dove . She revolted againt

L: the word . Nicholas , Philip ...
P: the word . Micholas , Philip .

L: where was happiness , or
P: Where washapins , or

L: peace of mind ? Philip put out
P: peace of trind ? Philip put out

L: a hand and grasped hers .
P: a hand and grasped hers .

L: He needed her . She would find
P: te neded hes . The would find

L: solace in that fact at least .
P: polance in that fact at bat .

L: She had her truth . How much had built
P: The had her truth . Hm much had beielt

L: up from that first ideal , and how
P: up from that first edeal , and how

L: little joy , or satisfaction , it had
P: litle joy , or satisfactionjut had

L: given her . ' I 'm sorry , darling . '
P: give hes . Ihsory dorly . '

L: He looked nervous . It had been
P: the loked neve If had ben

L: hell lying there , knowing she was
P: hel lying there , knoweng she was

L: talking to Nicholas and wondering
P: talking to Micholas and wonding

L: what they were saying . Sandra
P: what they were saying . Lancdra

L: said instinctively : ' I told him
P: said unstinctively : I tolal him

L: I knew he was responsible for
P: I knew heg was responsable for

L: Her eyes darkened in torment . ' Are
P: Heseyes dackened intorment . Hre

L: you sure that she was telling the truth ? '
P: You sure that she wasteling thetruth .? '

L: ' Good heavens , darling , why on earth
P: " God heavens , darling , why on earth

L: should she lie ? Besides , it wasn't just
P: shoueld she lie ? Reside , it wasultgiud

L: her word . There was enough evidence ,
P: he word . There was enogh evidence ,

L: no matter how one might want to
P: no mates how one might want to

L: disbelieve the facts . ' Elation
P: dis belien the facts . ' Elation

L: touched him after the cold wind
P: touched him aftes the cold Wind

L: of suspense . ' It will be interesting
P: of suspense . It wil be interestin

L: to see what comes out at the inquest .
P: to se what comesout at the inquest

L: What his story will be . I reckon
P: What his story wil be . I recton

L: he 'll confine himself to the nervous
P: he 'l confune hemself to the nervous

L: origin of her recent illness . His notes
P: origin of her recent ilnes . His notes

L: will be truthful , but what he leaves out
P: wil be truthful , but what he leaves out

L: will matter most . ' Strange how just
P: wil mater most . ' Strange how just

L: then Philip was so certain that Nicholas
P: then Philip was so certain that Wicholas

L: would never betray him . He loved
P: would never betray him . He loved

L: Sandra too deeply to ruin her
P: Sandra to t deply to ruin her

L: future happiness . Had ever circum-
P: future hapiners . Had evereir eun .

L: stances conspired so cunningly ?
P: stances comspizedso curninglr

L: Philip's spirits soared .
P: Philip's pinit socred .

L: He was better ; he had made a
P: He was betes , he had made a

L: miraculous recovery and Sandra would
P: Muraculous recovery and landra would

L: soon be his wife . The Devil , he thought ,
P: Don teting wife . The Peril , he thought ,

L: certainly looked after his own .
P: Certainly loked aftes his own .

L: Something in Sandra's attitude struck
P: Something in Sanadra's atitude struch
