L: He rose from his breakfast-nook bench
P: He rose from his breakfostnok bench

L: and came into the livingroom , where
P: and came into the lvingsom wlere

L: Heather and Steve stood aghast at
P: teatler and Mene stod agpan at

L: his entrance . He came , almost falling
P: lis antronce . He cane , akuor fatling

L: forward in an ungainly shuffle , neck
P: fowvard in on ungoinly slufle , neck

L: thrust out , arms dangling loosely .
P: Ilicirg ond , arms donghng bosely .

L: Then , abruptly , he drew himself up
P: Tlen , abmuply , de dien lim self up

L: and walked on the very tips of
P: and walked on te wery lips of

L: his toes . He stretched his arms
P: his Loas . He tretcled dis ouny

L: over his head and yawned agape ,
P: oner his leod and youned agopoeol

L: drawing-in great breaths that
P: drawing- in greal deals 1for

L: became great sighs of ecstacy .
P: Wecome aucel sals-od 2e Daice

L: " They have come ! " he said reverently , gripping his
P: Tho y have come ! " he said reverently , gr iping his

L: hands together between his knees and leaning
P: hands together betwen his knes and leaning

L: forward . " Isn't it a glorious thing ! Long awaited
P: forword . ' Bn't it a glosions thing ( ong awoited

L: transcendent event , the exalted desire of all
P: transcendent event , the exalted desire of al

L: mankind through all ages ! The Kingdom of the
P: mankind through al ages ! The Kingdom of the

L: Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes
P: Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes

L: upward and shook his head slowly from
P: upward and shok his head slowly from

L: A superfluous precaution for there was no other car
P: A superfluos precantion for there was no other car

L: abroad ; and no pedestrian to cross his path nor to wait
P: abroad ; and no pedestrian to cron his path nor to wait

L: at an intersection for the light to change . At his
P: at an intersection for the light to chayge . Ait his

L: apartment he garaged his car and then stood
P: gpartment he garyged his car and then stod

L: listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the
P: listening in the vight . Listening in vain . For the

L: earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart
P: lartlhad lost its life-tempo , as the heart

L: Deadly stillness , deadly portent !
P: Deadly stilnes , deadly portent !

L: Steve awakened early and switched on
P: Steve anrakened earty and switched on

L: the radio , which he kept tuned to CBO.
P: the radio , which he kept tned to c0 .

L: The set lighted-up but gave only a low
P: The set lighted-up but goaue only a low

L: buzzing sound . He had just finished
P: burzing saund . He had just finished

L: shaving when it came on , with a flat
P: shaving when it came ony with a flat

L: voice repeating : " This is BBC calling
P: wice repecting . " This is Bbe caling

L: ... this is BBC calling ... "
P: ' . . this is 8e caling . . . I

L: After what seemed an undue period of repetition , the voice
P: Tfreo what secmed an snce peried of repetition , the wice

L: went on to describe the landing of the Thetan colony
P: went on to clscrite the Lancurng of the Phetan cdany

L: in Sussex , in all its obscene details . Then the radio
P: in Susex , in al its obseme details . Then the racio

L: went dead again , and Steve had no stomach for
P: went dead again , and tere had ne stomach fr

L: breakfast . It was a beautiful day , as firsts-of-June
P: dreatfust . It was a beantiful day , as firsternof . Jume

L: should be . Steve got out the car and traversed the
P: should be . Htere got oul the car and traversed the

L: same empty streets as he had the night before ,
P: tame uply strects a he had the night teforse ,

L: to keep an appointment with Heather .
P: to kep ape apointuent with Heuther .

L: Coming around the great mass of the Chateau
P: Coming wound the great mas of the Chatean

L: Laurier , he braked to a screeching stop . A
P: tamvien s he braket to a sceching otop . A

L: flying saucer was tilting and dipping over
P: flging saucer was titing and diping over

L: the War Memorial . There was a deep
P: the war Memoial . There was a dep

L: whirring sound , and a high-pitched hissing
P: whining ound , and a ligh pitched lising

L: overtone that sang in his ears with an
P: overtoue that sang in his ears with an

L: almost painful sharpness . He reversed and
P: almost pain ful sharphes . He seversed and

L: turned back on McKenzie Avenue .
P: turned backe on d lengi'e avenue .

L: " The Thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to
P: " The Phetans , " he said , ' ane prevumably here to

L: take charge , as it were , of the minds of the
P: take charge , as it were , of the minds of the

L: people - who are probably falling all over them-
P: people -. who are probably faling al oven them-

L: selves in their zeal to get their orders and to carry
P: selves in ther geal to get their aders and to cany

L: them out . Just what these orders will be , we don't
P: them out . Just what theve ondens wil be , we don't

L: know . Now , because of prior hypnosis we have es-
P: kenow . Now , beaue of prione Mypnests we lave es-

L: caped Thetan subjugation . This time . But we no
P: caped Thetan subojugation . This time . But we no

L: longer have any immunity .
P: longer have any imunity .

L: There is just a hope that we may uncover
P: Thore is just a hape that we may ucover

L: some weakness , and find a way of fighting
P: some weaknes , and find a way of figiting

L: back at them . " Heather agreed , and suggested
P: back at them . " feather agred , and ongested

L: that they use Dan as a specimen demonstra-
P: that they use Dan as a specimen demoustra -

L: ting how the Thetan machinations had been
P: ting how the Thetan macdinations had ben

L: working out . It occurred to Steve that this may
P: working out . It oecured to Steve that this may

L: not have been entirely an objective suggestion
P: not have ben entrely an abective ougestion

L: on her part ; but he thought it a good idea
P: on her part ; but he thought it a god idea

L: There can be little doubt that if the
P: Them can be litle doubl that if the

L: Thetans discover our mental independence
P: Thetains discoves ons mentu l independerce

L: they will promptly give us their hypnotic
P: they wilprohably give ws their hypnotic

L: treatment . If we can avoid undue
P: Areatement . If he cans esvoid mn dme

L: prominence , it may be that we can
P: prominence , it may be that we can

L: move about pretty freely without
P: move about penty Ahe be withone

L: detection . If we can - well , then we
P: detection . Ihe can- wel , them we

L: may be able to promote our own
P: may be abhe to prouste ounr

L: interests . What those interests
P: inferets . What those inferents

L: are , beyond personal security ,
P: are , beyond Perconl secrite ,

L: I haven't a clue ; but , who knows ,
P: I hamelt " clunce'y bet , who kenous ,

L: we may form the nucleus around ...
P: we naytothecustes gcond .

L: When he finally beckoned to them to enter , the action
P: When he finaly bekoned to them to enter , the action

L: gave the impression of having been thought out and
P: gare the impresion of having ben thought out and

L: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidden , while
P: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbiden , white

L: Dan paced the floor . He seemed completely unaware
P: Dan paced the flowr . He semed completely unaware

L: of their presence . They just stared at him , turning
P: of their precence . They just stared at him , tuning

L: their heads like tennis spectators as he walked up and
P: their heads like tenis spectatory as he watked up and

L: " Now , to summarize what I think our
P: " Now , to sumarize what I think our

L: course of action should be . First , to avoid the
P: course of action should be . First to avoid the

L: Thetans like the plague , for they must not
P: Thetans like the plagure , for they mst not

L: find us out ! Second , to tread pretty warily
P: Aind us outi second , o ftread prety uarily

L: among our own people , finding out just how
P: among our owk people , finding out just how

L: much freedom we can take with safety .
P: nurch fredom wa can tako withe safety ,

L: And third , to study these damned Thetans .
P: And thind , to study these dauned Thotans ,

L: We must learn all we can about
P: We nust learn al we can about

L: So they proceeded to see if the coast
P: So they proceded to se if the coact

L: was clear . The street was quiet and
P: was clear . The stret was quiet and

L: deserted , and there were neither sight
P: desterted and there were neither sigh I

L: nor sound of flying saucers . So they
P: hor sond of flying sancers So thay

L: ventured forth and made their way on
P: ventured farth and made their way on

L: foot to Dan's house . Dan came
P: fot to Dan's house . Don cme

L: to the door at their ring but neglected
P: to the cor af thair ring but neglected

L: to offer any greeting . He was deeply
P: to ofer any greating . He was deply

L: preoccupied , and it seemed that the
P: preocupid , and it remned thot the

L: ringing of a doorbell was to him
P: minging of a dorbel was to him

L: a new and strange phenomenon .
P: a new and stroge phenonenon -

L: His whole attitude was a mixture of
P: this whole atituole was a mixture of

L: impatience pending an awaited
P: impartience pending an auaitecl

L: communication and of a vague
P: comunication and of a vague

L: perplexity respecting his surroundings
P: perglexify respecting his suroudings

L: and the purpose he was to serve .
P: and the puspose he was to serve .

L: Finally , being so obviously on their own ,
P: Finafly, being so abviorsjy, on their oun ,

L: Heather and Steve tried to make themselves
P: Heather and Sleve thicd to moko themselies

L: at home . Steve switched on Dan's
P: at home . Steve seitched on Dn'

L: powerful , world-wide radio and systematically
P: powes ful , workl-wicte radio and gus tematicaly

L: turned the tuning knob through all the
P: turned the kning hnob throug h al the

L: tuning points of the world's great radio
P: tnina peint2 of the certels greaf rectic

L: They followed him to a city bus stop on Carling Avenue , where
P: They foloved him to a city bus stup on CarkingAveme , where

L: he waited . The bus stop was a deserted island on an empty street .
P: he waited . The hve stop was a deseted istand on a supty strect .

L: But not for long , for soon pedestrians and cars flocked upon
P: But not for long , for sompedestians and cars floched upon

L: the Avenue from its many tributary streets . It might have
P: the Avemre from its many tribumary strets. It might have

L: been a normal business-day bustle , except for two anomalies .
P: ben a normal busives- day luotle , except for two ansmalies .

L: First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone
P: First , it was sunday morning ; and , second , evergoue

L: walked , or drove , or waited as a person possessed of
P: watked , or dove , or waited as a person posesed of

L: a single all-exclusive purpose .
P: a siugle al-exclusive pupose .

L: After a long wait a bus appeared and they
P: cfter a long mit a hs apeared and they

L: followed the beaming Dan aboard , taking
P: folowed the learing hian abourd , taking

L: seats some rows behind him . Steve was
P: sech tome rows behind bim . Atece was

L: beginning to find the stereotyped , flattish , happy
P: degiming to find the sterechyged . fletish , hupy,

L: faces very disconcerting ; and looking at
P: fues very dinonerting ; and locking at

L: Heather he found a welcome relief in her
P: Hleather he found a welome welied in her

L: relatively long doleful one
P: relutively dlng elolefel one

L: Then he would go back to Plato for a final spell of
P: Then he would go back to Pato for a find spel of

L: real days and would return to New York in late
P: real days and would return to Hew Yoek in late

L: January or early February . Angelina might be a
P: founary or early Felmary . Angelina might be a

L: little sorry if we were not back for Christmas
P: litle sory if we more not back for Christ mas

L: as arranged , but he consoled himself by
P: as aranged , but he couscded himsef by

L: thinking that he and Angelina would have
P: thinking that he and Angdlina would have

L: plenty of time together in the future . And
P: Menty of time together in the futuve . And

L: Heaven alone knew when , if ever , he would be
P: Heaven alone knew nehug if ever , he would be

L: back on Moon again , and able to do
P: back on Mon again , and able to do

L: research at first hand into matters on which
P: research at fist haund into maltes on wtich

L: the future of everyone , including Angelina , depended ...
P: the futune of ever yone , including Angdina , depende .

L: The recovery of his balance was due to the
P: The recovery of his Galance was dne tor the

L: fact that he was living , virtually without
P: Bact that he was living , irtualy without

L: expenses , with the people to whom Moke had
P: eserenses , with the people to whom Motre had

L: sent him : little people who regarded him as
P: sert hin . liftle reople who regareded him as

L: lucky to have descended from such economic altitudes .
P: Iucty to have descended from such economic alftudes .

L: Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the Secretariat
P: Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the secretarial

L: ( Stamp Department ) while Sally sulked at home .
P: I Stamp pepartment ) while saly sulted at home .

L: They had been married for six years , but the
P: Thet had ben masried for six years , but the

L: salary raise , on the expectation of which they
P: salary raise , on the expectation of which they

L: had done so , had not materialised . " Do you
P: had dore so , had not materialdsed . " 0 you

L: know , I had to send back our bedroom
P: lenaw , I had to send back or bedrom

L: furniture in the second year , " she moaned . She
P: forniture in the secand year , " she moared . She

L: had contacts in political circles , a school-
P: had contacts in political circles , a schol .

L: friend of hers having married Lester Peron ,
P: fiend of hers having maried Lester Peron ,

L: a Mocrat Senator with a seat on the
P: a Hecrat Genator with a seat on the

L: ( literally ) all-powerful Rocket Release
P: Literaly ) ael-powerfure Roduet Release

L: Sometimes she took Harry around with her , but
P: Sometimes she tok Hary around with her , but

L: never her husband , a fact he accepted as inevitable . " I guess
P: reves her husbond , a fact he acepted as ineritable . ' I gres

L: Sally made a mistake about me , " he said one
P: saly made a mistake abatme he said one

L: evening , when he had been left to cook his own meal .
P: evening , when he had ben lef to cok his own meat ,

L: All Sally's relations were 4makrodeb now , but Tom
P: Aof suly's relitions were Amatirodb nom , but Tom

L: was a Static Mib , the middle-income-bracket equivalent
P: was a stotic 1it , the midate-incame-brackd egcivatent

L: All Aristotle was excited at the time , not by the prospect of the
P: ' l aristotle was exitd at the hine , not by the prosped of the

L: U.S. President's visit , but by a great storm in the photo-
P: 1.S. Presitent's viscl , but by a great strom in the plobor -

L: sphere of the sun . A matter which on Earth would hardly
P: shere of the sure . I mater whach on Earth could tardly

L: penetrate beyond the minds of astronomers was of general
P: pnctante beyord the minds of asteraners was of generch

L: interest to the Mos , doubtless because their habitat is
P: instrest intest to Ie tos , doubtles beause their hrabrit is

L: not submerged beneath a deep natural atmosphere .
P: not suimergs berath a dear ratural atrosptare .

L: One wondered if this greater awareness of the physical cosmos might
P: Ohe wondered if this gretesr anuenes of the plipical carnes might

L: with time instil the reverence which , on Earth , nature inspires ,
P: with lirme instil the revrece which , on Eith , matue inpive ,

L: especially when one reflected that the rockets over which Mr. Peron's
P: eipecialy when one reftected that he retet over which Mr. Paon'

L: Board presided had it in their power permanently to warp the
P: Gard presited had it in thir powser permanently to warp the

L: solar system . True enough , such ultimate weapons had not been
P: dolar ystem . Tive enough , such utimate weapont had not ben

L: used in the last few wars , but it seemed very probable
P: used in the last fole fes wars . but it semed vuy prosbte

L: that they would be in the next one , Moon and her
P: that they would be in the teat next one , Hon and her

L: allies being more inferior than formerly to W.C.U. in the
P: alies being more infrios than farmef ts b9 .C.A. in the

L: weapons pronounced conventional .
P: Weapons pronounced conventional

L: Lester was not home yet from his formidable
P: Lesterwas not home yet from his formidabte

L: duties and his wife , in the manner of middle-brow
P: darties and his wife , in the moner of mitle-brow

L: wives , romanced about him in his absence . " Lester was a
P: wils , ramanced about himein his absence . " lester wesa

L: country lawyer , and we were very small 4microdebs , weren't we ,
P: country lauyer , and we were very smol fmictadebs werentue ,

L: Sally " - here she had dropped her voice in homage to the
P: Sal " here she had droped her voice in honge to the

L: economic system : that was reverenced - " when he thought
P: economic system ' that wos rererened - " when he thugt

L: we might get GO a bit better if he entered politics .
P: we might get ho a bit beter if he entered plitics .

L: Know how he did it ? He 's clever on
P: Mnow how he did it ? He's clouer on

L: the mouth-organ . So when he visited some
P: the mouth-organ . So when he visited some

L: craterlet on Face ( ours is an agricultural
P: craterlet on Tace lours is on agricultural

L: Back-Face area ) the cry would go up ,
P: Bach-Face are ) the cry would go up ,

L: as soon as he had spoken a few
P: as son as he had spoken a feur

L: sentences of his speech : ' Cut the
P: sentences of his spech . ' Cut the

L: politics , Lester , give us something on
P: politics , Lester , give us something on

L: But since starting salaries would depend on grade A
P: But sice starting salarias would depend on grade I

L: or B in the finals next May , and since mating
P: or B in the finals nest May , and since matins

L: prospects would depend upon salaries , scholarship for
P: prospets would depend upon salarles , solidarshin for

L: these fine young people was closely geared to
P: these Kine yong people was olosely geared to

L: economic and biological ends which , essentially ,
P: econmic and bidogical ends e which , esontialy ,

L: were really means . So , seeing them revolve in
P: were realy means . So , seing them recdver in

L: circles , Harry had the feeling that Moke ( or what
P: cirdes , Hary had the fefing that Moke Cor whaten

L: Moke consciously or unconsciously symbolised , any-
P: Mote Conscionsly or unconscinbly syubrlised , ony -

L: way in Harry's mind ) had these splendid young
P: may in Mary's mind ) had these splendid young

L: people by the short hairs , and was diverting them ...
P: people by the stort hairs , and was direrting them .

L: That 's how he got the votes , that 's how
P: That's how he got the votes , that's how

L: we came through to 4makrodeb status and
P: we came trough to Umakrodebs status and

L: got all these lovely things " - she waved a
P: got al these touely things - she waved a

L: plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc :
P: plump hand towards her grand pianos , eto i

L: at the same time a door banged - " but don't
P: at the same time a dor banged - ' bout donit

L: say a word about it , Lester wants his
P: say a word about it , lester wants his

L: mouth-organ to be forgotten now . The time
P: mouth-organ to be forgoten now . The time

L: has come for him to be taken seriously
P: has come for him to he taken seriousby

L: Peron entered , a large man , who had once been
P: Peror estered , alorg man wto had once ben

L: handsome but was now seedy-looking , a sufferer
P: handsome but nas non sedy-loling , a sutferer

L: from stomach-ulcers . In the Back-Face tradition he
P: fram stomach-ulaers . In the Back-Face Hadition h

L: wore , and kept on indoors , a fifty gallon hat . Harry was
P: more , and hept on indore , a fifty agitlonhat . thry was

L: prepared for something unpleasant , for this was
P: prepared for something unpleasant , for this nas

L: the Senator who had annoyed the United States
P: the senator who had anoyed the United states

L: by bragging how he had once won a trick from
P: by troging hom he had once mon a trich from

L: W.C.U. by threatening to loose off one of his
P: M.C.N. by threatening to lose ofe one of his

L: rockets ( an admission which would scarcely help
P: rochets lan adn-ision which would scarcely help

L: bluff to succeed the next time ) and , lately , by
P: tuf to suced the next time jand , lately , by

L: saying that if Mo land-troops had to come to the aid
P: saving that if Molaond-trops had to come to the aenld

L: of the O.G.O. contingent in the Panama region ,
P: af the aSensediced in the #oxevesian

L: But privately he turned out to be as friendly as
P: But privately he tured out to be as friandly as

L: Mr. Wise the tube manufacturer , to have the same adolescent
P: Mr. Wise the tube mamutactuer , to have tho eame abtolesest

L: openness and freshness , though perhaps not the same
P: openres and Frahnes , though pertaps not the samre

L: maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer
P: rnoturity . One remembered that he was a lauyer

L: by training , and suspected that the points he made
P: by training , and suspected tat the points ha made

L: so sharply in international politics were as abstract
P: so sharply in international politics wers as abstroct

L: to him as those a lawyer makes in a court
P: to him as thase a louyer maked in a court

L: The motive would be the same in both cases , to
P: The motive would be the same in both cases , to

L: serve this home of his , in which his heart lay .
P: serve this home of his ,in which his heat lay ,

L: Here the rocket man's charm was disarming . Yet
P: tere the rocked man's charm was disarming . Get

L: when the time came to leave , Harry felt as de-
P: when the tine came to leave , tary felt as de-

L: pressed as when he left Mrs. Halliday's office ,
P: presed as when he left Mrs. Italiday's ofice ,

L: exactly a month ago . If even Mo statesmen only
P: exacdly a mouth ago . If en Po statemen only

L: did what they had to do to get GO on an expan-
P: did what theg had to doto gel 60 on an expan-

L: ding scale , and left the sum-total of their actions ,
P: ling scate , and lef the sum-total of their actions ,

L: and their lunar and earthly repercussions , to luck
P: and their hnas and eartly repercuseione ,to Iuche

L: ( or to Moke ) , there was a vacuum where there should
P: Cor to Molef , there was a vacum where there should

L: be a centre of trust , responsible for the maintenance
P: be a centre of trust, responsible for the maintenance

L: The political life of Aristotle looked more and more
P: The political life of Amitotle Cotred more and more

L: like a masquerade of business interests in dis-
P: Ehe a masqherad of Euninen interats in di-

L: guise which , far from attracting the allegiance
P: quise which , far from atracting the abegiance

L: of free men everywhere , could only repel them .
P: of fre men everywhere, could only repere them .

L: Then what of the cultural life ? Did this per-
P: Then what of the cultural life ? Bid this par-

L: haps nurture a genuinely civilizing impulse
P: haps nurture a genuinely civieigung umpule

L: which might in time become social fact
P: which might in time Gecome social fact

L: and counteract the obsession with economics
P: and counteract the obserion with econonies

L: which had grown up during the Moon's
P: wohich had grown up during the Noun's

L: At the centre of each circle stood personnel
P: At the centre of each cirle sfout persounel

L: managers of corporations , together with professors
P: mangers of corporations together with profcors

L: and their filing clerks . The students had
P: and their filing clortes . The studket had

L: bought their college education forward and
P: boughl thair colege oducation . forward and

L: were now being bought forward in their
P: were now being bught forwerd in the's

L: turn . By comparing personal appearances
P: thrn . Bg cmparing persoal apearance

L: with university records , the agents of the
P: wnth unricesity records , the agents of the

L: businesses would pick on young men
P: busihertes would pick an yoncy men

L: and women who interested them , and contracts
P: and wouen who intrested them , and cantract

L: would be initialled at the end of
P: would be initialed at the end of

L: Stepping out in their white shorts , they looked glad enough
P: Stapfing out in thair white shorts , they Cotod a gough

L: to be diverted , however , with the single exception of one
P: to be alvesteal , domeres , with the Rughe exegtion of om

L: worried little man-student who kept getting out of
P: rorial Citotle man-studient who tapt gothing out of

L: step . He looked as if nothing Moke and his
P: shys . He loskaol as of noth ing Mstice anad his

L: minions could do to him would ever make him
P: minians coulal do to h,im woald ewar makian him

L: GO ; but the reason probably lay in elementary
P: GR0 , but the reason probably lay inelomontary

L: neurosis and not in some eruption from those
P: neurosis anod not in some eruption from those

L: deeper layers in the human psyche which are
P: dlagrers Cayarg in the hamon poyehan which orn

L: So once again the metaphysics were depressing ,
P: So once again the metophysics were depresing ,

L: and in absolute contrast to the physical display .
P: and in absolute controst to the physical display .

L: Mos have an un-American love of parades , and
P: Mos have an un-American love of parades , and

L: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they
P: these young ones , on paracde for jols which they

L: had to get to pay off their college bills , were naturally
P: had to get of their colege bilts , were naturaly

L: putting their best foot forward .
P: puting their best fot forward .

L: ' Something 's up , ' said Lord Undertone ,
P: v omething's up i ' saicd Lord Undertone ,

L: carefully casual . ' The servants are all on
P: crefuly casual . " The servnts are al on

L: edge ... did you notice ? And the mules
P: edge . Aid you notice ? And the mules

L: didn't seem to want to get off the raft . '
P: dichn 't sem to waut to get of the raft . "

L: He peered as it were into the dark secrets
P: He pered as it were into the dark secrets

L: of the jungle . ' Think there 's Indians
P: of the jungle . . Think there's Indiaus

L: about ? ' It was most certainly an eerie
P: about ? " It was mest certinly an erie

L: night , exceptionally brilliant and strange ,
P: night , exceptionaly brilieut and strange ,

L: for in the proximity of the mountains ,
P: for in the proxinity of the montains ,

L: whose presence I could almost smell ,
P: whose presence I could almost smel ,

L: ' Impressive , ' Lord Undertone said , gazing reverently
P: Impresive , Lord Ondertone said , gezing reverently

L: on the cosmic handiwork . ' All those stars . But I 'm
P: on the cosmic handiwork . ' A those sdars . Out I 'm

L: a bit earthbound tonight , Trout . I 've got a queer
P: a bit earthboud tonight , Trot , I 've got a guer

L: feeling , like I always get when something
P: feling , like I always get when something

L: sensational 's going to happen . There 's things lurking
P: sesaioal's ging to hapen . There's bings wrking

L: if you ask me . Might be jaguar , might be ...
P: if yow ask me . hight be jagoar , mifht be.

L: Hope I die kind of composed , Trout . I mean you can't
P: sope I die kind of composed , Trout , I mean gou cani't

L: imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking ,
P: imagine the Christian martyrs tisting and shrieking

L: no matter how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a
P: ho mater how bad it feft , the fire you knos, or a

L: lion munching , or arrows where it hurts most . Or
P: Cion muching , or arous where it hurts most . Or

L: can you . Look over there . ' He pointed to the
P: can you Lote over there . ' He pointed to the

L: shadows beyond the river . ' Something moved . '
P: sholous beyord the river . ' Something moved . '

L: ' Bottle-Foot , my lord . ' ' Bottle-Foot ? ' His lordship
P: " atle . Fot , my lord . ' Batle Fat ? ' His lordship

L: may have thought I had become unbalanced
P: may have thaught I had beome unbalaned

L: through fear . ' A character Mr Gilberto mentioned
P: thraugh foar . A character Mr filberte mentioned

L: to other day , my lord . A being of whom
P: to otr other day , my land . A being of whom

L: the forest Indians are said to be mortally
P: that foresf Indians are said to be mastaly

L: afraid , with a hoof shaped like the heel
P: afraid , with a frof shaped like the hed

L: of a bottle . If your lordship will excuse me
P: of a botle . If yaur loudghi wil excanse me

L: Small , repulsive creatures they were ,
P: Gmal , repuleive ereatures they mere ,

L: with black , matted hair and a striking
P: with blaek , mated hois and striking

L: resemblance to the shrunk heads we had
P: resemblance tofhe shurunk heads we had

L: gazed at recently ; and I have no
P: gaized at rently ; and I hane no

L: hesitation in saying that they would have
P: hesitation in saying that they would have

L: made an end of us but for an intervention
P: mode ons end of ue but for om infervention

L: so unexpected , so unusual , that only the
P: gs unespected , so nusual , that omfe the

L: necessity of rounding my narrative
P: necesity of raunding my norative

L: compels me to mention it .
P: compels me to mectian if .

L: I had a distinct impression that the
P: I hada distinct impresion thet the

L: hut had recently been cleaned and
P: hut hach recently ken cleaned and

L: prepared for visitors . Mrs Caine said
P: prepored forvisiters . Mrs Cane said

L: we were to go no further unless and
P: We were to go no further mles ancd

L: until we were sent for , confirming
P: uti I we were sent for , confirning

L: another impression that became more
P: another inpesion that became moe

L: and more definite , namely , that
P: and more depinite , namly , theat

L: she was in touch with an invi-
P: she was in touch with an inv-

L: sible source of authority .
P: sible saurce of athuvity .

L: Sally and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely
P: taly and of course Mrs. Egtinus , for surely

L: Mr Septimus stood in the same case as
P: Mr Septine stod in the same case as

L: myself ? But was it so ? I allowed myself
P: myself ? But was it s ? I alowred myself

L: to entertain for an instant the idea , the
P: to entertain for an ustant the idea , the

L: strange , the unwelcome , the almost
P: strange , the unwelcame , the amorst

L: inconceivable idea , that Ariadne's arrival
P: inconveniancabtle idea , hat Aricdre's arival

L: would be inopportune ; and with the idea came
P: would be ingposture , and with the idtea cane

L: a somewhat vulgar impulse , which I refused ,
P: a somewhet rufgor impuls , ei which I refusrd ,

L: to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs
P: to watch Ar septimus more closely , Mrs

L: Caine too and Mr Gilberto who would ...
P: Caine to and Ar gilbert who would .

L: But all three were to the casual
P: But al thrce wore to the casual

L: observation I permitted myself unruffled ;
P: observation I permited myself unrufled ;

L: Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very
P: Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very

L: thoughtful , but that was his habit . Indeed
P: thoughful , but that was his habit . Inled

L: we were all invaded by a most tranquil
P: we were al inraded by a most trangurl

L: mood . Even the Indian servants relaxed , knowing ,
P: mod . Even the Indian sevents relared , brawing ,

L: so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and
P: so Mr Gelberts told as , that the wild and

L: savage tribes never approached this region : at
P: sarge Arbes never aproacked this region; af

L: any rate they remained with us , perhaps
P: any rat hey remained with ad perlaps

L: for such protection as our presence , or Mrs
P: for such proteation as our presence .or Ars

L: But after what Mrs Caine had said it was never
P: Buntafter whad tas cone and oaid it was never

L: far from our minds that at any moment we were
P: Gor srom aur minds soat at arng mament we weare

L: to receive a summons . I could see that Mr Septimus
P: to recaise a aumars . A caned ae that hre septimns

L: was impatient for it . This afternoon , then , we climbed
P: was impatient for it . This aftermon , tan , we ceumbred

L: a promontory , a mass of clean rock crowned with
P: a promentang , a mars of cesan roc crouned with

L: trees and bushes , that stood well out over the lake .
P: tres and eusaes , that steod we ant ouer the enere-

L: NO ONE has ever satisfactorily explained how a
P: 1oONE hae is satisfactorily axplamd how a

L: single-decker Welsh bus could have got
P: single-ake Walsh hus could have yot r tsilf

L: itself into orbit . Shooting up over the pass a bit
P: into onbrt . Ghoting up our the pas a but

L: too carefree , and becoming airborne ?
P: to car-fur , and brcoming alrborns ?

L: Caught by a sudden gust of wind ? A
P: Carght bya suden gust of wind 2 A

L: combination of the two ? No one seems
P: combination of the to ? to our sirms

L: to know . But the fact remains that get
P: to know . But the fact vemains that git

L: itself into orbit it did .
P: tgub f into oerbuf if g iul .

L: And a fine old fuss there was about it , too .
P: And a fine ofd fis then was aboul it , toey

L: Here are the known facts . On 10th July ,
P: thise an the hown fucts . On IOth Joly ,

L: the bus , the 2.20 from Dinas to Llangrwl ,
P: the hus , the 26 from Drnas to Ilangrurt ,

L: left Dinas at two-thirty-five as usual .
P: loft Dinas at two-thisty -fure as usral

L: Aboard , apart from the crew , were Mrs. Megan
P: Ahoard , aport from the erow , wre Mhs. Megon

L: Thomas and her five-year-old son Cadwallader ;
P: Thomes an d hir firs-yor-old son Cadraladir,

L: pretty little Morfydd Owen ; Mr. Stanley Hayball
P: qurty litle Mor fryod Owin , Mr. Stunhy Hasbal

L: and Miss Ethel Yates , hikers from
P: and 1d , Mis Ethl ater , hibies from

L: Birmingham ; Price the Provisions ; and the
P: Pr minghum : Price the Prorisions ; and tho

L: Yes , the bus set out from Dinas . So much
P: es , the bus set out from Bines . So nouch

L: is established . Ifor Huw Evans , Propr. ,
P: is cstablishrd . Ifor How Erans , Propr . ,

L: watched it go from the windows of the
P: watchid it go from th windons of the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. Very interested ,
P: Dinas Motor Ounibrs Co. Vors infeustid ,

L: Ifor was . For there was his garage hand ,
P: Ifor was . for thos ws his gangr hand ,

L: Dai Pugh , taking a tearful farewell of
P: Dar Pugh , taking a tcar fol furmol of

L: Morfydd Owen . Morfydd , who had until
P: Morfyod Bur . Mofyld , who had until

L: recently been Ifor's typist , but was now
P: recently ban lfor's typist , hd was now

L: returning to her home town as a
P: utoring to hi home toun as a

L: fully-fledged schoolteacher .
P: Rly -fledyud achol teachir .

L: " But I 'm only going fifteen miles away , "
P: " But I'm onty going fiftion wiles amay , "

L: Morfydd was saying . " Not the end of
P: Morfyold was sayiny . " Not the ind of

L: the world , is it ? " " For me it is , " Dai
P: the morld , is it ?' " for me it is , ' Pas

L: said wretchedly , wiping his hands on his
P: sard wurtch rdy , miping his hards on his

L: overalls preparatory to a last embrace . " You
P: ormals peoparctory to a last im broce . ' ' Vo.

L: will not be remembering a mere garage
P: wif h not bo rmspmrbering cmos guraye

L: hand when you are lording it over
P: hand whon you ore lordiny if our

L: the Mixed Infants of Llangrwl . "
P: the Aricad Infunts of Llongrn ( . n

L: " Silly boy , " said Morfydd . Though she
P: " Bity hay , ' sard Morfy d . Though she

L: could not help wondering whether , now she
P: could not help wontiring whithen , non she

L: had qualified as a schoolteacher , poor
P: had gualifind as aschol tcachir , pop

L: little Dai was quite the man for her .
P: litfo Dai was guite the mon for her .

L: A nice boy of course . But perhaps in the
P: Anice hey of course . Bt pirhops in th.

L: new world she was entering there might
P: hen world she nus intiring thure nighd

L: be boys equally nice , and with far more
P: be boys egcaly hico , and with far mon

L: to offer . The conductor rang his bell .
P: to ofer . The condictor rany his butf .

L: " Good-bye , Dai , " said Morfydd , smiling from the bottom step .
P: " god -Age , ws , " said hefgild , mniling from the letom Map.

L: " Good-bye , Morfydd . " He sought to enfold her in his arms . But he was too late .
P: " yat- by , reafeld . ' Ae sght truflh fer in hisam , at hemestor lats .

L: She was already up the bus steps , and the bus was away . And Morfydd Owen
P: the was draly up the bis saps , wnt the hus was asay . And rofild Oren

L: waving , unkissed , from the window . And Dai , on the pavement , knowing in his
P: sasg , mhinet , hom the winter , Aod ain , an the pasenent , knarg in his

L: heart that Morfydd was leaving him as surely as she was leaving Dinas .
P: Seast that hrlght was bearing hin as surly as the sas beang aimnis .

L: So the bus set out for Llangrwl . But it never reached there ! Somewhere ,
P: 3 to Res st ont for langre! . But it newer rataed thot ' fomernten ,

L: on those fifteen miles of mountain roads , it disappeared from the earthly
P: on those bflen mbls, f manfai sats , At disapeaed fron the eatly

L: scene . The first intimation that all was not well came when a
P: rene . the Bist inturatin that al was not sel uims when a

L: Mr. Isaiah Roberts , landlord of The Traveller's Joy , rang up the
P: Mr. Saich alit , bertled of She Srastler's by , sang up the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. to ask what had happened to their
P: auri's Nhtr Armiles 2 . to wih shat had hapened tr ther'

L: " Left here all right , " said Ifor . " Two-thirty-five , on the dot . " " It 's
P: ' gf or al yigft , ' sid for . ' Sur . thity- foit , entfe 9t . ' " f's

L: supposed to leave at two-twenty . " " Who says so ? " " Your timetable . "
P: sped te dese af tur- trerdy , " ' Whes rey a ! " you timnatatle , '

L: " Don't want to take too much notice of those old timetables , " Ifor said ,
P: " sn t st to tetin to weuk nhice of thes ald toretabtes . ' forsid ,

L: reasonably . " Start running punctual and where are you ? People get
P: resonably . ' Itot rneng qunctual and shos as yon Darplh gef

L: left behind , isn't it ? Very exasperating for one and all . "
P: sift Bfing thind , in 't it ' Fay exeapeatryf for ene widh el . "

L: " And what are you going to do about it ? " Tendentious , Mr. Roberts sounded .
P: ' Lud sht ax yon goyg to be dont it ! ' Snbertiain , Mr. Alechs, eorled .

L: " What do you want me to do ? Send out a sheriff's posse , is it ? " No sense
P: " hat hro yen nent ns to be ' Buint ot a saif'n port , nih ? ' He ad

L: of humour , that Isaiah . He banged down the receiver . Very uncivil . Dropped
P: o Armor , that taich . Ae banged San te reausi , by ucind . thapyet

L: the mask , now , Ifor did . " Dai Pugh , " he bellowed . " Leap on your bicycle
P: #o math , nor , for hid . ' Dsai fugh ' he beflesed , ' Seap on gour higeh

L: and scour the countryside between here and The Traveller's Joy .
P: and sevr tho countrysits feluam fex and the Srarelkei's fay ,

L: The two-twenty to Llangrwl has failed to
P: The tiotwuty to Langrul has failed to

L: complete her mission . " Paled , did Dai . For the
P: Complete her mision . " Paled , did Dei . For the

L: two-twenty carried , for him , a cargo more
P: to-twent', cunied , for him a congo more

L: precious than jewels . Though Mofydd Owen
P: precious than geuels . Though Mofyold Oisen

L: was , as he feared , departed out of his life ,
P: was , as he feared , dopented out of his lfe ,

L: he still loved her dearly . Already , even
P: he stil loved hes deanly . Rhseady , even

L: as with trembling fingers he fastened his
P: as with trembling fingers he fontened his

L: trouser clips , he was seeing her lying in
P: trouser clips , he was seing hes lying in

L: some dreadful ravine , or beset by
P: some dreadful rouine , ar beset by

L: robbers , or being whisked off to Emergency
P: robers , or being whisked of to Emergency

L: But even his imagination , luckily for him ,
P: But even his ingmatin , Euckily for him

L: did not visualise the awful truth - that
P: did not visualise the anful truth - that

L: Morfyyd Owen was already qualifying for
P: Mortuyd Owen was alseady quadifying for

L: the title of " First Woman to Enter Space . "
P: the title of " First Voman to Eunter Space . "

L: " Where are we going , Mam ? " inquired little
P: " Where ane We going , Marn " inguied litle

L: Cadwallader when his child mind grasped
P: Ladvulader when his child wind grasped

L: the fact that the green earth was falling
P: the fact that the gren eanth wus failing

L: away at a rate of knots .
P: away at a rafe of knots .

L: Where indeed ? Megan Thomas spoke sharply
P: Where inded ? Megan Thamas spake sharpl y,

L: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .
P: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .

L: But nonplussed , the conductor was . A
P: But won plused , the conductor wces . A

L: good man , mind ; knew his job . But out of
P: goad man , mind ; knew his gobs . But out of

L: depth in this particular instance . Fingered
P: dopth in this particalar instance . Fingesed

L: his ticket-punch nervously . Peered out of
P: hins ticket-punch bervously . Pecred cut of

L: the window . Went and consulted the driver .
P: the window . Went and cansilted the driver .

L: " Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwallader .
P: " Whese are we going 2 " he echoed Cadwalader .

L: " Damned if I know , boy , " said the driver .
P: amned if Iknow , boy , " sard the driver .

L: " But something very untoward has
P: " But somothing very untoward has

L: happened , if you ask me . "
P: hapened , if you askme .n.

L: Immersed in the Dinas Advertiser , was the
P: Fumersed in the Divas Delventisex , was the

L: Rev. Edwards . Now he put down his paper ,
P: Rer. Edvards . Nar he pat down his paper ,

L: folded it , and glanced idly out of the
P: folded it , and glanced idly cut of the

L: window . Looked again , eyes starting from
P: window . Locked again , eyes stasting fromn

L: his head . " God bless my immortal soul , "
P: his head . " God bles my imontal sont , "

L: he cried . " Never mind your immortal
P: hecried . " Neves mind yorar imortal

L: soul , " said Megan Thomas tartly .
P: Socl . " Said Mogan Thomas tastly .

L: " Here we are traversing the heavens at the
P: " Here we are travesing the learns at the

L: very moment when we should be
P: very mament when we should be

L: running into Llangrwl bus station .
P: runing into langrul bus statcon .

L: And no one doing the first thing about
P: Oud no ame doing the finst thing about

L: it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you
P: it . " Stung , the conductor wos . " What you

L: expect me to do ? " he inquired , bitter .
P: expect me to do , " ho inguined , bitfer .

L: " Radio Flying Control at London Airport ,
P: " Radio Plying Contrd at London Diport ,

L: is it ? " " Mutual recriminations will get
P: is it 2 " " Mutual recriminations wil gt

L: us nowhere , " boomed the Rev. Edwards .
P: us howhare , " beamned the Row. Edvanrds .

L: " It 's all very well , " commented
P: i Rt's al very wel , ' comented

L: Mr. Hayball from the back seat .
P: Ms . Nayboul from the back seat .

L: " But Eth and me wanted to be
P: " Put Ethe and me wanted to be

L: at the Youth Hostel before dark . "
P: at the Jouth Sanrtel befere dast . "

L: Morfydd Owen was silent . But she
P: Horfyd Ouvem was slent . But wthe

L: looked down at the fast-disappearing
P: Rohed down at the Gart-disapeaing

L: earth , and it seemed to her that she
P: sarth , and it nemed to her that The

L: would never see her Dai again . And
P: wvould never ne her Rai again . And

L: though half an hour ago she had
P: though half an hour ago whe had

L: regarded this possibility with
P: iegarded this ponibility with

L: fortitude , it now filled her with
P: yotitude , it mou filed her with

L: dismay . Quietly she began to
P: dismag . Auiedly the bygan to-

L: Dai , meanwhile , was pedalling
P: Dai , meamutile , was pechaling

L: furiously on the road . Not a sign of
P: furiously on the road . Nat a nigm of

L: the bus . He passed The Traveller's
P: the bus . the paned The Braveler is

L: Joy . At last he caught up Mr. Roberts ,
P: Joy . At Lant he cought uy Mr. Roberks ,

L: walking very dogged towards Llangrwl .
P: avaliting hy doged howards Rlangnut .

L: " Afternoon , Mr. Roberts , " he called , polite ,
P: " Aternom , Mr. Roberts , " he caled , polite ,

L: as he shot past . His spirits were rising .
P: as he hot pant . His spirils were ting .

L: He had seen no sign of an accident .
P: The had sen no singo of un acidenst .

L: Therefore Mr. Roberts must have been mistaken .
P: Thelfore Mr. Robests muent hace bermintaton .

L: He would find the bus safe and sound in
P: Hhe would find the bas nofe and nound in

L: Llangrwl , and his dear Morfydd quietly
P: flarngnul , and his dear Morfyd quietly

L: But disappointment awaited him . A
P: Put disapointment curaited him . I

L: restive queue of people in the bus station ,
P: sestive quene of people in the bus tation ,

L: waiting to be transported to Dinas . And
P: wvaiting to be transgorted to Dinas . And

L: when he went to Morfydd's house , all
P: when hervent to Mar fyold's house , al

L: he found was Morfydd's mam , working
P: he found was Norfyd 's mam , woking

L: herself up proper ... Getting dark , now .
P: herself up proper . Belting dark , now .

L: The conductor switched on the lights .
P: The conductior nitched on the lights .

L: The beleaguered passengers peered out of
P: T he beleaguined pasengers pered out of

L: the windows . Little to be seen , only a
P: thenindous , Ritle to be nen , only a

L: few lone stars , and the distant earth
P: Gor fone ars , and the dintant sath

L: brooding in her shroud of mist .
P: broding in her shroud of mint .

L: Megan Thomas sat tight-lipped , nursing
P: Hagon Thomes nat kight-Riped , muning

L: the sleeping Cadwallader . Driver and
P: the sleging ladualader , Arinver and

L: conductor peered ahead into nothingness .
P: conductor peared ahiad into molingnens .

L: On the back seat Stan Hayball embraced
P: On the bach seat than Hgpbal embraced

L: his Eth . Morfydd thought of Dai . The
P: his Etar . ogyd thought of Nar . The

L: Rev. Edwards , standing at the front ,
P: Mer. Edurards , wtanding ats the front ,

L: looked at his forlorn flock . " What
P: Loched at his fortom flock . " W Whet

L: about a verse or two of Cwm Rhondda ? "
P: about a verse or luve of Cursm Rhonda ? '"

L: he suggested hopefully .
P: the nugented hopifuly .

L: They looked at him , sullen . His heart
P: They loked at-him , nulem . This heanst

L: sank . If the Welsh found the situation
P: mank . If the Selth found the ilualion

L: too desperate for singing , then the
P: to denparate for ninging , then the

L: situation , he realised , must be desperate
P: situation , he realined , munt te desperate

L: indeed . But suddenly they were roused
P: inded . But ndenly they were roused

L: from their lethargy . Something was
P: dhom har-ltoape . Lomeiange evses

L: approaching , faster , faster , a tearing
P: aproaching , fanter , Janter , a fearing

L: hurrying blur that was past and gone
P: hurging bher that aves pant and gone

L: in a moment , followed by a great
P: ima moment , foloved by a great

L: rush of sound . They waved frantically .
P: seh of nound . They waved franlicaly .

L: But the jet aircraft was already miles away ,
P: But the get aircmgt was alveady miles away ,

L: swinging down to the darkening earth . " It
P: suringing down to the doutening eanth . " St

L: passed me at fifty thousand feet , sir . It was
P: pesed me at fity thousand fet , sir . It was

L: climbing steadily . " Group Captain Llewelyn Jones , Officer
P: climbing stendily ! " Grovy Captain Clewelgn Gone , ofier

L: Commanding R.A.F. Station , Dinas , looked keenly at the
P: Comanding R. A.F. Station , Dimne , loked Reanly at the

L: Flying Officer who had burst so unceremoniously into his
P: Plyging oftican who had barst so undemaiously into his

L: office . " And what did it look like , Broughtons ? Some
P: ofice . " And what did'it lot like , Broughtors h Sone

L: Flying Officer Broughtons shuffled his feet .
P: Flying Ofier Broughton shuflecd his fat

L: " Well , actually , sir , it looked like - like a bus .
P: " Wel , actualy , sim , it loted like - like a bus .

L: A single-decker , " he elaborated . Daggers , the
P: It single - decsor , " he elatorctel . Dogirs , the

L: Group Captain looked . " Broughtons , " he said silkily .
P: Groy Coptein loted . " Groughtous , he said silhily .

L: " Didn't they teach you at Cranwell that buses are
P: " Drda't they teach gon ot Cronwel that busres ore

L: earth-bound creatures ? Aeroplanes fly , Broughtons .
P: eanth-bound ereatues ! Aeroplns fly. Aroughtous

L: Buses crawl . " Very pale , Broughtons was . But
P: Buses craul . " Vay pale , Groughtons wes . But

L: determined . " It was a bus , sir .
P: detrmined "gt was a bus , Si4

L: They 'd got the lights on . There were people inside .
P: thegid got the lights on . There were people insiche

L: Waving . " Like gimlets , the Station Commander's eyes .
P: Waving . " lihe gimlets , the Station Comonde's eges .

L: " Did you see the indicator board ? " " Yes , sir . " " And
P: " Dd gon se the indicatoe bond ? " " . Pes , Six . " " tud

L: what did it say ? Mystery Tour ? " Oh , very caustic , that
P: What dad it sagt Mgstrng Tobr f , wny constic , that

L: Group Captain . But Broughtons stood his ground . " No ,
P: Groe Captain . But broughtons stoad his ground . " Ms ,

L: sir . It said Llangrwl . " Llewelyn Jones sat
P: Sir . It simply said Clangiul . " Elewelgn Jones sat

L: back in his chair . " I see . So you met a bus at
P: a in h hang sec 5o yo t as fat ,

L: All lit up . Full of people waving as you went past . "
P: Al lit up . Ful of pople wosing as gor went past . '

L: Suddenly he crouched forward . " Broughtons , if I thought
P: Sudanly he crouched found . " Bronghtons , n I thought

L: there were anything in Queen's Regulations to cover this ,
P: tere were angting in Auan's kegulations to con this ,

L: I 'd have you court-martialled . But I know there
P: I'd hare yoe cont-montialed . But I Rnow the

L: isn't , " he ended sadly . " I tried to read the
P: isnt , " he endact sacdly . " I tricd to read the

L: registration number , sir . But it was getting dark . "
P: registration number , si . but if was geting dart . "

L: He waited . But his commanding officer appeared to
P: the yrantel . But his comanding ofthear apoared to

L: " Then we are saved , " cried the Rev. Edwards .
P: " Thon we are savet , " cried the Rer . iclwnds .

L: Shyly , Morfydd Owen produced a block of
P: Ingly , Mortyold Ouren prodeced a blodt of

L: He saluted , and left the presence , very crestfallen ...
P: He salated , and lef the presence , very crestalen .

L: Time passed . The bus climbed , and went quietly
P: Time pased . The bus climbed , and went quietly

L: into orbit . Time passed . The Rev. Edwards' pulpit
P: into orbit . Time parsed . The Rer. Edwards ' pupit

L: remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai
P: remained emnpty . And so did the arms of Dai

L: Pugh . How could they be otherwise , when his
P: Pagh . Hon could they be othervise , when his

L: beloved was circling the Poles at three-and-a-
P: heloved was cireling the Poles at thre-and-a-

L: quarter-hour intervals , regular as clockwork ?
P: quarter-hour intep rals , regular as cloctuorki?.

L: Time passed . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan
P: Time pared . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan

L: Thomas , isn't it , " as though they didn't really think
P: Thomas , isnt it , " as though they didn't realy think

L: it was a pity at all ; as , indeed , they didn't .
P: it was a pily at al ; as , inded , they didtn't .

L: LOCAL BUS DISAPPEARS announced the
P: we LOC BUS DISAPEARS anounced the

L: Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored
P: Ninas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored

L: the whole affair . Ifor Evans reported his loss
P: the whole afair . Ifor Evons poported his los

L: to the police . But they only tut-tutted . " Lost
P: to the police . But they only tutated . " Lost

L: a bus , is it . Very careless . " That was their
P: a bas , is it . Very careles . ' That was their

L: attitude . Now if there 'd been a good old accident ,
P: atitade . Now if there'd ben a god old acident ,

L: they could have measured up the road and
P: they could have mecsured up the road and

L: But losing a bus ! People were always losing
P: But Losing a bust People were always Losing

L: things . You 'd be surprised , they said . So it
P: things . You'd be sarprised , they said . So in

L: seemed , for a time , that the whole affair would
P: semed , for a fime , that the whole afair would

L: be written off as one of those unexplained
P: be writen of as one of those unoxplained

L: mysteries , like the Marie Celeste . Then things
P: mysteries , like the Marie Celeste . Then thinas

L: began to happen ... But what about the voyagers ?
P: tegan to hapen . . But what about the royagerst .

L: Well , the Rev. Edwards had taken command . " Our
P: Wel , the Rer. Eodwards had taken comand . " Our

L: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to
P: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to

L: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now
P: that of a castamay on a desert island . Nou

L: what does such a person do ? He signals
P: whal does such a person do ! . He signals

L: his position by lighting bonfires or hoisting a
P: his position by lightina bonfires or hoisting a

L: flag on a palm tree . And he tries to ensure
P: Sla on a paton fre . And he fries to ensare

L: " Can't go lighting bonfires on this bus , "
P: " C an't go lighting bonfires on this tus , "

L: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the
P: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the

L: Company's Regulations . " " Of course not , " agreed
P: Company's Regulations . " Of course not , " agred

L: the minister . " No , we have another way of signalling
P: the minister . " No , we have another may of signalina

L: our position . The driver must sound his horn
P: bur position . The driver must sound his horn

L: continuously . " Gave him a look , the driver did .
P: continously . " Gave him a lot , the driver did .

L: " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely .
P: " Where you think we are ? " he asked radely .

L: " Do as I say , driver . " Very stern , the reverend
P: ' Do ar I mag , ariver . " Wary sterm , the rerverend

L: gentleman was . So the driver peep-peeped as
P: gentleman was . So the dniver pep-peped ap

L: through empty space . " Thank you , " the Rev.
P: through emply space . " Thanh you , " the Rev

L: Edwards said courteously . " Secondly , we must
P: Edwrardf aid courtously . " Seondly , we must

L: pool and ration our supplies of food , if any . "
P: pol and ration our suplies of fod , if any . "

L: He looked at Price the Provisions , who was nursing
P: te lored at trice the Provisimg , who was muning

L: " Now , who has any food ? " he asked hopefully .
P: " Nour , who has any fod ! , " he arted hopefuly .

L: Stared back did Price the Provisions , unwinking .
P: Stared bach did Price the Pransiony unusiliny .

L: " Mr. Price , I think you may be able to help us here , "
P: " Mr. Pice , I think you may be able to help us asre ,

L: said the Rev. Edwards . Price shook his head .
P: rand the Rer. Edwards . Price shot hif Read .

L: " Intended for Plas Newydd , this lot is . Paid for ,
P: " Intended for Plap Nuryold , thif lot is . Said for ,

L: too . " He folded his arms protectively over the basket .
P: to . " ne folded hit ams proteclively over the bas tet .

L: Mutinous dog , thought the Rev. Edwards , who hadn't
P: Uirinons dog , thought the Per . Edurds , who had't

L: enjoyed himself so much since reading Treasure
P: enjoged himself no mud sin ce reading Treasme

L: Island . " What have you got in that basket , Price ? "
P: 'slund . " . What hare you got in that baskl , Price , '"

L: he roared . Quelled , Mr. Price pulled out a grocery
P: he roared . Clueled , Mr. Price puled on t a groceng

L: list , pushed his glasses up on his nose , and
P: list , pushed his glasel up on his more , and

L: began to read . " Six loaves , four pounds butter ,
P: began to read . " Six loares , four poundf lutr ,

L: two pounds marge , one tin pineapple , one York ham . "
P: to fomds mange , one tin pineaple , ohe Yorl han "

L: Bertram's face was grim . " You think it was the Snort ,
P: Setran ' s fre wat grim . ' V on think it waf the Smort ,

L: don't you ? " John gave a short laugh . " I did , " he
P: don't yon ? '" John gave a short laugh . " I aid , ' he

L: said ; " but I 'd better stop thinking that now .
P: said ; " but I'd beter stop kinking that nowr .

L: Pericles is fitted with an identically similar one . "
P: Periclg in fiting with an identicaly simitar ond . '

L: " So there you are , my dear . " Peggy 's eyes filled
P: ' So thare yon are , my dar . " Pugy's eyes piled

L: with tears . " It 's so unfair , " she said .
P: writh fears . 'n 3t's oun fait , " ' he maid .

L: " That little beast Robbie Munyard spent six
P: " That litle beast Robie Mn yard apen t nir

L: months ashore while Pericles was refitting in the
P: monthes ashoe whil Pericls was refiting in the

L: dockyard and now that she 's ready for sea he goes
P: dotyard and moer that she's ready for nea he goef

L: sick . Just because he 's an Honourable he can do
P: sick . Gest because he's an stmourable he can do

L: what he likes . Anyway , why pick on you to succeed
P: what he liter . Anyway , why pit on you to suced

L: him ? " John didn't answer . There was no point
P: fim ? " gohn didhn' f amsuer . There waf ao print

L: in sharing his discomfort with Peggy .
P: in sharing hif dliscom fort with Pagzey . '

L: Though your wings and your scars are new ,
P: Though your wings and your scars are new ,

L: you may join us . ' ' I am Lily-yo . We three
P: you may join us ; " I am Lity-ypo . We thre

L: are humans . You are only flymen . We will
P: are humans . Yon are only flymen s We wil

L: not join you . ' The Captives grunted in boredom .
P: not join yous The Captives grunted in horedom .

L: The Chief Captive spoke again . ' Always this
P: The Chief captive spoke again . ' Always this

L: talk from you of the Heavy World ! You have
P: talk from yon of the Heany World ! You have

L: joined us . You are flymen , we are human . You
P: joined us Yon are flymen , we are human . Yon

L: I saw several men running down towards
P: I saw several men runing down towards

L: the shack . They were all armed with rifles .
P: the shak . They were al armed with riftes

L: As the nearest of them came round the
P: As the mearest of them carme round the

L: shack , his rifle at the ready , I saw it was Nick
P: shot , his rifte at the ready iI saw it was Nick

L: Dowd , still wearing his blue check shirt . He
P: Bod , stil wearing his blue check shint . the

L: came up close , eyeing us suspiciously . " We 've
P: came up close , epeing us suspicionsty , ' We 've

L: come 2a-calling , " I said . " Can't see no reason
P: come 2a-caling , ' I said . " Can't se no reason

L: for calling , " he said . " Still long as you 're here
P: for caling , " he sard . " Stil long as yomire here

L: you may as well stay a while .
P: yon may as wel stay a while .

L: 'Light an' come on in . " We dismounted and
P: Cight an' come on in . ' We dismounted and

L: one of the miners who 'd come along with
P: one of the miners whod come along with

L: Nick Dowd took our horses off to water .
P: Nick Bond tok our horses of the water .

L: We followed Nick Dowd into the shack .
P: We folowed Niek Wond into the shack .

L: They 'd rigged up a stove of sorts and on it
P: They d riged up a store of sorts and onit

L: a huge blackened coffee-pot steamed . Other
P: a hage blacluned cofe-pot steamed . Other

L: miners followed in at our heels . Nick Dowd
P: miners foloued in at our hels . Niek Bond

L: found us a couple of boxes to sit on .
P: found ns a couple of bokes to sit an .

L: A small man in bib overalls and a battered
P: A smal man in bib overals and a batered

L: Derby hat fussed around the stove . " 2Ain't
P: Derby hat fused around the stove . " 2 Aini't

L: exactly the Ritz Hotel but we 've got our little
P: eractly the Rite Hotel but weive got aur litle

L: comforts , " said Dowd . He introduced the men
P: comfarts , ' said A oud . He introduced the men

L: who 'd come in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick
P: who' d comre in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Micte

L: Golightly , Swede and the Sodbuster . This last was
P: Golightly , swede and Sodbuster . This last was

L: the little hombre in big overalls . Very soon he
P: the litle homore in big overals . Vemy son he

L: had tin mugs filled with hot black coffee
P: had tin mugs filed with hot black cofe

L: sweetened with molasses for all and for us
P: srectened with molases for al and for us

L: there were two plates of beans .
P: there were tno plakes of Beans

L: " They gives you the wind , " said the Sodbuster
P: " They gives yon the wind i " sard the Sodbuster

L: handing them to us , " but it 's all we got
P: handing them to ns , ' but it's al me got

L: as of now , apart from a few sacks of gold
P: as of now , apart from a fem sacks of gold

L: dust . " He winked at his partners . They all
P: dust . " He winked at his pareners . They al

L: watched us as we ate the beans . Then when
P: watched us as me ate the beans . Then when

L: we 'd finished and I 'd rolled a cigarette
P: we " d finished and I'd roled a cigarete

L: the man called Shorty said , " You were saying when
P: the man caled shorty sard , " Yon mere saying whon

L: you came in that 2somep'n happened last
P: you came in that Esomepin hapened last

L: " Yes , " I said . " Something happened all right .
P: " Yes , ' I said . " Something hapened al right .

L: After you 'd left the meeting , mister " - I
P: After you'd left the meting , mister " - I

L: looked across at Nick Dowd - " someone cut
P: loked acres at Wick owd- " someone cut

L: down William Appleton outside the Palace
P: down Witliam Apleton autside the Palace

L: with a shotgun . " I paused and watched my
P: with a shotgun . ' I pansed and watctied my

L: words affect them in their different ways .
P: words afect them in their diferent ways .

L: " That 's sure bad news , " said Dowd , sombrely .
P: " That's sure bad nems , ' said Bord ,sombrely .

L: " It 2jest about leaves everything wide open
P: " At Rjest about leares everthing wide open

L: for Mr. Pell and his bunch , " observed
P: for Mr. Bel and his bunch , " observed

L: The rest of the men there said nothing but
P: The rest of the men there said noting but

L: you could see they were hard hit . They were
P: you could se they wore hard it . They were

L: simple men who knew a lot maybe about
P: simpte men who knew a lot maybe abont

L: digging for gold but were babes in arms
P: diging for gold but mere babes in arms

L: when it came to dealing with owlhooters and
P: when it came to dealing with outhoters and

L: desperadoes like Pell and Fenton and the
P: desperades like pel and Fenton and the

L: rest . " I guess we 'd better hold onto the gold
P: rest . " I gues we ' d beter hold onto the gold

L: right 2hyar , Nick , " said the Sodbuster .
P: right Chyar , Niek , " said the Sodbuster .

L: " Yeah , " said Dowd dubiously . " 2Mebbe we 'd
P: " Teah , ' said Doud dubionsly , " 2rtebe we'ld

L: better . " Surprisingly Dan Maffrey came in at
P: beter . " Surprisingly Dan Mafney came in at

L: that point . " If you do , " he said , " you 'll be
P: that point . " Af you do , " he said , " pou'l be

L: sure asking for trouble . They 'll be on your
P: sure asking for trouble . They'l be on pour

L: necks before you can say ' knife ' . It wouldn't
P: necks before you can say ' knife ' . It wouldri't

L: be the first time they 've held up a diggings
P: be the first time theyive held up a digings

L: at gun point either . They 've done it before
P: at gun point cither . They 'ne done it before

L: and got away with it . "
P: and got away with it . i

L: " You 're 2durned tootin' , mister , " said the man
P: " You're Rdurned totin' , mister , " said the man

L: called Roper Smith . " We 've got five rifles among
P: caled Roper Smith . " We 're got five rifles among

L: us and a few six-shooters . But most of us
P: us and a few six-shoters . But most of us

L: 2ain't 2eddicated in shootin' . It 'd be a
P: I airi't aedicated in shotin's c'd be a

L: 2massacree , 2yessir . " " If you 'll take a chance
P: Rmasacre , Dresir . " " Af pou'l take a chance

L: on getting your gold to the bank , then we 'll
P: on geting your gold to the bank , then wel

L: abide by what we said at the meeting , "
P: abide by what we said at the meting , '

L: said Dan . " We 'll watch the stage out of reach . "
P: said Ban . " We'l watch the stage out of reach . "

L: I couldn't quite see how all this fitted in
P: I conldn't quite se now al this fited in

L: with Dan Maffrey's aim to avenge himself
P: with Ban Mafrey's aim to arenge himself

L: on the Fenton bunch but still it was a
P: on the Fenton bunch but stil it was a

L: handsome offer so I chimed in too . " That
P: handsome ofer so I chimed in to . ' That

L: goes for me , gentlemen , " I said . " If they do try
P: ges for me , gentemen I said . ' If they do try

L: and hold up the stage , it 'll be a couple or
P: and hold up the stage , it .I be a couple or

L: three of them , no more . I reckon we can deal
P: thre of them , no more , I recton we can deal

L: ' But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - '
P: B ut we - ' hop your stupid tal , woman ! ' We are - '

L: ' Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Appa Bondi said .
P: ' Be Silant , woran , and listen , ' Eand Apa Eondi said .

L: ' We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive . ' Some
P: ' We know much , ' repeated the Ohief Captive ' Sone

L: things we will tell you . All who make the journey from
P: things we wil tel yor Al who make the joumey from

L: the Heavy World become changed . Some die . Most live
P: the Meary world becore changed . Sorce die . Most live

L: and grow wings . Between the worlds are many strong
P: and grow wings Betwen the worlds are many strong

L: rays , not seen or felt , which change our bodies .
P: rays , not sen or felt , which change our badies

L: When you come here , when you come to the True
P: when you come here , when you core to the True

L: World , you become a true human . The grub of the
P: World , you becone a true huran . The grub of the

L: tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So humans
P: tigerfly is not a tigerfly untit it changes . So hurans

L: change . ' ' I cannot know what he says , ' Haris said
P: change . ' I canot know what he says , ' Maris said

L: stubbornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and
P: stubornly , throwing hirself down . But Lily- yo and

L: ' To this True World , as you call it , we come to die , '
P: To this True World , as you cal it , we come to dis , '

L: Lily-yo said , doubtingly . The Captive with the
P: lilgy - a said , doultingly . The Captive with the

L: fleshless jaw said , ' The grub of the tigerfly thinks
P: fleshles jew said , ' The greb of the tigerfly thinks

L: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' ' You are still
P: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' You are stil

L: young , ' said the Chief Captive . ' You begin newly here .
P: yauing , ' said the chief Captive . ' You begin nenly here .

L: Where are your souls ? ' Lily-yo and Flor looked at
P: Where are sour souls ! " Lily-po and Mhr losked at

L: each other . In their flight from the 4wiltmilt they had
P: each other . In their flight from the awiltuilt they had

L: heedlessly thrown down their souls .
P: hedlesly thrown down their souls .

L: Haris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !
P: Maris had trarpled on his. It was unthinbable !

L: ' You see . You needed them no more . You are still
P: ' ou se . Hu neded then no more . Nu are stil

L: young . You may be able to have babies . Some of those
P: sourg . Hou nay be ale to have babies . Sone of thase

L: babies may be born with wings . ' The Captive with
P: babies may be bomn with wings . ' The Captive with

L: the boneless arms added , ' Some may be born wrong ,
P: the boneles arms aded , ' Some may be bomn wrong ,

L: as we are . Some may be born right . '
P: as we are . Some may be bomn night . '

L: ' You are too foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are
P: ' You are to foul to live ! ' Maris grouled 'Why are

L: you not killed ? ' ' Because we know all things , ' the
P: you not kiled ! ' Because we know al things , ' the

L: Chief Captive said . Suddenly his second head roused
P: chief Captive said . Sudenly his second head roused

L: itself and declared , ' To be a good shape is not all
P: itself and bectared , ' To be a god shape is not al

L: in life . To know is also good . Because we cannot move
P: in tife. To know is also god . Secause we canot move

L: well we can - think . This tribe of the True World
P: wel we can - think This tribe of the True world

L: is good and knows these things .
P: is god and knous these tings .

L: So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo
P: So it lets us nule it. ' Rlor and Lily-yo

L: muttered together . ' Do you say that you poor
P: nutered together . ' Do you say that you por

L: Captives rule the True World ? ' Lily-yo asked
P: Captives rule the Tiue world? ' lily -yo asked

L: at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? '
P: at last . We do ' ' Then why are you captives ? '

L: The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs connected ,
P: The flyuan with ear lobes and thumbs coneched ,

L: making his perpetual little gesture of protest ,
P: making his perpetual litle gesture of protest ,

L: ' To rule is to serve , woman . Those who bear power
P: To rule is to serve , nonan . Thase who ber pawer

L: are slaves to it . Only an outcast is free . Because
P: are slaves to it. Only an outcast is fre . Because

L: we are Captives , we have the time to talk and
P: we are Captives , we have the time to talk and

L: think and plan and know . Those who know
P: think and plan and know . Those who know

L: command the knives of others . ' ' No hurt will
P: conmand the tnives of others . ' No hurt wil

L: come to you , Lily-yo , ' Band Appa Bondi added .
P: come to you , lily-yo , ' Band Apa Bondi aded .

L: ' You will live among us and enjoy your life free
P: ' You wil live among us and enjoy your life fre

L: ' No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths .
P: ' No ! ' the Cief Captive said with both nouths .

L: ' Before she can enjoy , Lily-yo and her companion
P: ' Before she can enjoy , (ily-yo and her corpanion

L: Flor - this other man creature is plainly useless -
P: Mlor-this other man creature is plainly useles -

L: must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ? ' Bondi
P: must help our great plan . ' The invasion ! ' Bondi

L: asked . ' What else ? Flor and Lily-yo , you arrive
P: asked . What else Mlor and lily-yo , you arive

L: here at a good time . Memories of the Heavy World
P: here at god time . Memories of the theavy world

L: and its savage life are still fresh in you .
P: and its savage life are stil fresh in you .

L: We need such memories . So we ask you to go
P: We ned such menories . So we aske you to go

L: back there on a great plan we have . ' ' Go back ? '
P: back there on a great plan we have . ' ' 2o back ! '

L: gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to attack the Heavy
P: gasped Flor . Nes . We plan to atack the Meavy

L: World . You must help to lead our force . ' The long
P: world . Yau must hel to lead our force . ' The long

L: afternoon of eternity wore on , that long golden road
P: afternon of etemnity wore on , that long golden road

L: of an afternoon that would somewhere lead to
P: of an afternon that would sorenhere lead to

L: Motion there was , but motion without event - except
P: Motion there was but notion without event - except

L: for those negligible events that seemed so large to
P: for thase negligibte event that sened so large to

L: the creatures participating in them . For Lily-yo , Flor
P: the creatures participating in them . For lily-yo, Mlor

L: and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was
P: and Maris there were many events . Chief of these was

L: that they learned to fly properly . The pains associated
P: that they learned to fly properly . The pains asociated

L: with their wings soon died away as the wonderful
P: with their wings son died away as the wonderful

L: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the
P: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the

L: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly
P: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly

L: flopping movements of flymen on the Heavy World
P: ploping movement of fiymen on the Heavy world

L: Alastair was a bachelor . All his life he had
P: Aastors was a buchetor . A his life he had

L: been inclined to regard women as something
P: ben clined to regord romen as somcthing

L: which must necessarily be subordinated to his
P: Hhich must ncesarily be subordinated to his

L: career . Now he realised that he was entrusting not only
P: carer . No he realised thot he was entrusting not only

L: his own life , but Geoffrey's as well , to a strange girl
P: his oun mife boud Geofrey 's as wele , to a stonge gul

L: whom he had never met and on whom after no more
P: thom he had never md and on whom after nomore

L: than a couple of telephone calls he was
P: than a couple of Klephone cals he was

L: prepared to place complete reliance .
P: prepared to pilace cospile releiance

L: " Good luck , Air Marshal , " she said gently . " I 'll
P: God mck , Air Masual , " sue said geutly . " Jue

L: be waiting for you at the Hotel Roma at six this
P: i be waiting for you at the fetel Roma at Si Mis .

L: evening - and I shall look forward to meeting you
P: evening - and I suale bok forsard to muting you

L: both at midnight . " They might have been
P: both ad miluighet . " They ajgut have ben

L: arranging a supper party . Then she rang off .
P: aranging a super party . Then sue tong of .

L: Alastair admitted that never in a not altogether
P: Mastais admited that never in a not altoguths

L: uneventful life had he come across a girl who
P: uneventful lfe had he come acors afire iho

L: sounded so charming and appeared to be so
P: sounded so charming and apeared to be so

L: It was a novel experience . Alastair was
P: I was a novel experlence . Dlastair was

L: quite unable to explain why he should feel
P: qrit uable to explain why he should fel

L: so much confidence in her . Once again
P: So msh coufalence in her . Ouce again

L: she checked back her instructions . It was
P: she cheched bach hes instructions . It was

L: obvious that she did not fail to appreciate the
P: dbrious that she did nat fail to apreciate the

L: faith which he was placing in her and
P: faith which te was placing in her and

L: was prepared to accept the responsibility .
P: was prepered to acept the respoupiblity .

L: For some reason the orderlies had forgotten
P: For some reason the oderlies had forgeten

L: to switch on the lights ; there was no colour -
P: Ao writch on the Aighte , there mu no colour-

L: physical features were distinguishable solely by
P: shupiceal featues mere Aistigrishable sbly ty

L: gradations of silvery greyness . Even the snow-
P: arndations of ailveng areyros . Een the onor-

L: capped summit of Mont Blanc , seven miles
P: auped sumit of toud plance , seven miles

L: below , was not recognisable among the host
P: belers , was not recoprioble among the hrst

L: of lower peaks . The screen of the air-to-air
P: of lover peste . The acsean of the in-to-an

L: radar glowed . Occasionally minute spots
P: satar gloved . Eecsvionaly ninte apets

L: flickered across its surface , but there was
P: flichered acrs its anfuce , but there whe

L: In the exceptional clarity he was even able to
P: In the exceptional darity he was even abe to

L: make a direct comparison between the radar
P: make a direct comparison betwen the radar

L: image and the ground itself . Ahead lay the
P: image and the grond itself . Ahead lay the

L: Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the
P: Plain of Lombardy , to the right , Turin ; to the

L: left , Milan . The directional angle of the
P: heft , Mikan . The directional anghe of the

L: scanner could be adjusted to cover any
P: scaner conld be ad jnsted to corer any

L: particular area within its range . Geoffrey
P: particular area within its range . Geofrey

L: turned the scale slowly to cover the
P: turned the scale stowly # to cover the

L: ground immediately ahead .
P: ground inmediately ahead .

L: Now , as Alastair reduced the thrust , the
P: Now , as tlastien reduced the thrud , the

L: pitch changed as the nose of the aircraft
P: pifoh danged as the wose of the airomf

L: dipped slightly . The needle of the speed
P: liped dlightly . The nedle of the oped

L: recorder swung gently through 8.0 , 7.0 , 6.0
P: recorder orng genthy through 8. 1 ,3.0 , 6. 0

L: before coming to rest at 5.0 . " We 're a bit
P: befre coming to rest at 5.0 . " We're a brif

L: ahead of time , " said Alastair . " We 'll run
P: whest of tine " , ad Aastrir " te l sm

L: in on minimum engine power . " Geoffrey
P: in on minimum angine powver Gesfreny

L: smiled . Alastair talked of running in when
P: omiled . Slustain talked of muning in when

L: they were still more than four hundred
P: they mere stil more than foun hundhred

L: miles from their destination .
P: mile from thein destination ,

L: He was able to pick out towns , unrecognisable to the
P: He was abte to pick out towns , unrecoghitable to the

L: naked eye , obscured by the ground haze which even
P: naked eye , dbroured by the groand hase which even

L: on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced
P: on the clearest right linited angutar vision . He glanced

L: at the speed recorder . It seemed almost incredible that
P: at the sperd recorder . It sermed almosl incribible that

L: the tiny white figure of 8.5 against which the needle
P: the ting white figure of E againit which the neidte

L: was resting could really mean hundreds of knots .
P: was resting coind realy mean hindreds of knots .

L: They were nearing Modena . Geoffrey focused the radar scanner
P: They were nearing Modena . Geofirey foused the radar scamner

L: on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port .
P: onthe bridge wver the Po , bavrely forty miles to porte

L: He was able to trace the course of the river ; he
P: the uas able to trace the course of the rer' ;

L: thought he could recognise the route of N12 ,
P: thought he could re cogrise the riruk of Nerle

L: along which he had motored so desperately little
P: along which he had motored so desperaitely

L: more than twenty-four hours earlier . Since then
P: more that tventy-four hours earlier Since then

L: he had flown to England , attended the vital
P: he had Glown to eifato y , atended the vital

L: conference in Bruce Denton's office , been whisked
P: conference in Bruce i ofice , den whisked

L: by special helicopter from the Horse Guards
P: by special helicorpter grom the " Horse Juards

L: Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for six blessed
P: Paraede to Eoscombe Doin , slept for svx , Glesed ,

L: refreshing hours and had now completed two-thirds
P: regreshina hows and had now completed two-thuird

L: of the journey back to the place where every
P: of the ihurney Sack to the place where , every

L: indication pointed to Eve being held .
P: idieation pairnted to . Eve being held .

L: Geoffrey set himself to consider the
P: Gecfey sed himself to cemsider the

L: movements of the Bentley . It had passed
P: movements of the Frentlay . It had pasped

L: him at the temporary bridge over the
P: him ad the temporary ilonslge over the

L: Tartaro at a few minutes past ten on the
P: Tar tas at a fewr miniter past fen on the

L: previous night . He worked out the distance
P: previor wighed . He worked out the Nisfance

L: on the presumption that its route had been
P: On the presvephioen that its raik had ben

L: through Florence and Rome and then
P: through Glarence and pome and then

L: across Italy via Foggia to Barletta .
P: acros Italy via Togn A Barlethe .

L: It came to just over six hundred
P: Id came t just ouer Di hundred

L: DARKNESS had descended like a curtain by the
P: RKNES had descended likce a cuitan by the

L: time they docked at Belleray . And though Guy ,
P: time they docked at Beleray . And though auy ,

L: made nervous by Beryl's silence , drove at reckless
P: made nerons by Bery's silence , drore al recles

L: speed to the Villa , it was quickly evident that
P: spead to the ril , it was quickly evialent that

L: the party was over . Piers came strolling out to
P: the party was over . Pies came stroling out to

L: meet the Deanes , and as soon as Guy had
P: met the Deanes , and as son as Guy had

L: driven away , invited them casually to come to
P: driven awray , invited them casualy to come to

L: " Oh , she was due ! " And then he added in the same
P: Th , she has dne ! " And then he aded in the same

L: casual tone , " She 's not returning to her family . She 's
P: Cesual tane , ' She's nt returning to her famnily . She's

L: going to live with friends of the bank manager , just
P: going to lire with friends of the bank manager , jnst

L: this side of Belleray . " Mrs. Deane made a suitable
P: this side of Beleray . " Mrs . Deane mace a sutace

L: comment , but Beryl said nothing . She was trying
P: coment , but Bery , said nothing . She was tiying

L: to sort things out in her mind . That beneath his
P: to sort things and in her mnd . That beneath Mis

L: unnaturally smooth exterior Piers was simmering
P: nunaturaly smocth exterios ias was simering

L: with anger against her she had no doubt .
P: with anger against hes she had no dould .

L: To Beryl , at least , this was anti-climax with a
P: To Bseryl , ad Least , this was anti-chimar with a

L: vengeance . She had expected to be met with violent
P: vengeance . She had expected tobe net with cident

L: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .
P: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .

L: But it did not take her long to realise that his mood
P: But it did not take her I ong to realise that his mod

L: was less pleasant than appeared on the surface .
P: was les pleasant than apoared on the sufarce .

L: He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his
P: He told her sonchatantly , as he led the way to his

L: own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of
P: Guon veranda , that he had taken the liberty of

L: asking Jack - as a representative of the Vallin family -
P: ashing tack - as a representetive of the Valin family -

L: to come over and make the presentation in her stead .
P: to come over and make the presentation in hes stead .

L: " I caught him just as he was going to the
P: " I cought him just as he was going to the

L: airport to meet Blanche , " he said . " As a matter
P: dirpot to net Planchke , " he said " As a mater

L: of fact I 'd asked him last night to deputise
P: of farct Ild cshed him last night to depurise

L: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party
P: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party

L: too . They 're both here . " " I didn't know she was
P: ta . They 're both here . " " I dicti't know she was

L: coming back from Barbados so soon . " Beryl
P: coming back from Barbados as0 son . " Bery'

L: said the first thing that came into her head .
P: said the first thing that came into her head .

L: Jack and Blanche were quick to sympathise , and to
P: tack and planche were gaich to sympaticg and to

L: express their disgust at Sir John's abominable treatment
P: aeges thair dingest of Sir tha's abmioade treadment

L: of his guests . But Piers remained aloof , and when Beryl
P: of his grests . B Pies remained alof , and when bary !

L: suggested having a second party , the following week , he
P: sugested haring a second pasty , the flowing wed , he

L: poured cold water on the project . Everyone , he declared ,
P: porited old wat on the praiet . Siasyoe , he dedared ,

L: had had a thoroughly good time , and it would take them
P: had had a trnghly gaed tine , and I woul take them

L: nearly to next week to settle down again . Meanwhile
P: nearly to nad wek to sete don agein . Heunhite

L: Hubert would have betaken himself and his well-
P: futert would have betaben hiuselfh and his welf -

L: earned gratuity to his native village at the
P: earned grafcnty tho hisr native wilage of the

L: " It 's your superior attitude that riles me . " Beryl was
P: " Hs pour superior atistude that siles me . " Bery t was

L: scarlet with annoyance . " How I happened to be marooned
P: scartet with aunogance . n Ao I hogened to be maraned

L: at Balicou doesn't interest you in the faintest degree . You
P: at falicon dern't isterest yon in the fainterd degre by

L: look as though it was only what you expected of me ,
P: lot as thoug it was only what you agredted of me ,

L: as though I didn't care a hoot about letting Hubert
P: as thagh I didi'l care a hot abad leting babert

L: It was all over and done with .
P: It ws alf auvey and done with .

L: For the time being Beryl was content to let
P: For the time being buyl was content to let

L: it go at that , but she resolved to have
P: it go at that , but she resolved to have

L: it out with Piers when a reasonable
P: it out with Piers when a reasouable

L: opportunity presented itself . He must
P: oportumity presented itself . He must

L: learn that he could not treat her
P: learn thet he could not treat hes

L: with injustice and contempt , ignoring
P: with injustice and contempt , iuaning

L: her explanations as though he were
P: hes eplenetrons as though ho were

L: a schoolmaster and she a small ,
P: a scholmastes and she a smal ,

L: He gave her no chance of any private
P: Iho gave has no chance of any private

L: conversation that evening , for when
P: convereatron thot eveng , fos when

L: Blanche and Jack left , he went with
P: Blanche and fack left , ho wbet with

L: them . But next morning she insisted
P: them . But net marning she insisted

L: on his taking her out in the jeep -
P: on his talcing her out in the jiep-

L: to find , if possible , Hubert and his
P: to fiund , if posible , Itubrt and his

L: relations , and tell them of
P: relations , and Shet tel them of

L: her great disappointment at being
P: her great disapointment at beng

L: held up in Balicou .
P: halp up in Balicon .

L: With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his
P: with an air of resigsation he senf dudy , his

L: Boxer , to the back , and made room for her
P: Boxer , to the back , and made rom for her

L: beside him . " Is that all you want to do ? "
P: becide him . " Io that al you wand to do . "

L: he asked , letting in the clutch . " No ; I want
P: he asled , leting in the chitoh . " No ; I vast

L: to make you understand just what happened
P: to mahe you understord just what hapened

L: about this Balicou trip , " she returned
P: aboust this balicon trip , " she returned

L: coldly . " I 'm a little tired of being treated
P: coldly . " I ' m a litle tired of being treated

L: like an ineffective imbecile . "
P: like an in ofective inblcile . "

L: " And I 'm heartily sick of being constantly called
P: " and I 'm heartily, sick of being constantly caled

L: to account for my manners , " he retorted .
P: to acount for my marhers , he retosted .

L: " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for
P: " what have I done wrong now ? I cover up for

L: you the best way I can by getting hold of Jack
P: you the best way I can by getling hold of tack

L: to make the presentation , I run the damned
P: to make the presentation , Irn the damned

L: party to the best of my ability - saying the
P: party to the best of my abitity - saying the

L: sugary things you ought to have been there
P: sngaery things you ought to have ben there

L: to say - and all you can do is to find
P: to say- and al you can do is to find siste

L: " As your employee it 's not my business
P: " As your employe it's not my busines

L: to understand all the whys and
P: to understand ald the whys and

L: wherefores of your actions , " he said
P: whuerefores of your actionus , " he said

L: stiffly . " Still less to criticise you . "
P: stifly . " Stil les to criticise yon . "

L: " Oh , drop that nonsense , Piers !
P: " Oh , drop that noususe , Piers B

L: Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with
P: Be pourself , " she exclaimed , with

L: mounting exasperation . " Very well ! " He
P: mounting exasperation . " Very wel ? . " He

L: brought the jeep to a standstill in a rough
P: brought the jep to a standstil in a rough

L: path fringed and shaded by citrus trees .
P: path fringed and shaded by citmus tres .

L: " If you want my true opinion I 'll give it .
P: 'If you want my tre opinion Iil giveit .

L: You made some sort of a protest to Graybury .
P: Hou made some sort of a protest to Graybury .

L: I 'll give you credit for that . But you didn't press
P: Il give you credit for that . But you didhit pres

L: the matter because , very naturally , you were
P: the mater becanse , very naturaly , you were

L: thoroughly enjoying Forrest's company in
P: thoroughly enjoying Forest's company in

L: idyllic surroundings . " " How dare you say
P: idghlic suroundings . " " How dare yom eay

L: such a thing ? " she blazed . " For goodness'
P: such a thing ? ' she blaged . " For godnes '

L: sake show a glimmer of reason , " was his
P: sake show a glimer of reason , " was his

L: equally indignant rejoinder .
P: equaly indiguent rejoinder .

L: " You talk as though we were alone on Balicou ! "
P: " You talk as though we were alone on Galicout "

L: She avoided his gaze , and tried to ignore that
P: she avoided his gase , and tried to iguone that

L: last impertinent remark . " With four other people - "
P: last impertinent remark . w with four other people - "

L: " Whom you never once managed to circumvent . "
P: " Whom you never ouce managed to circumtext . n

L: The mockery in his voice had deepened . " With
P: The mockery in his vorice had depened . w With

L: all due deference , Miss Deane - come off it ! "
P: al dhe deference , Mis Geane -come of it I n

L: She met his eyes then .
P: She cet his engeg then .

L: She wavered , and at last said
P: She wavered , and at Last said so

L: slowly , " If you must drag the truth
P: scously , " Of you must drag the truth

L: out of me , I must ask you to regard
P: aut of me , i must ask you to regard

L: it as confidential . " " My dear Beryl ,
P: it as confidential . " " Hy dear berygh ,

L: don't tell me anything , if you 'd rather
P: dlon't tel me anything , if yauid rather

L: not . " He was clearly startled by her
P: not . " He was clearly startled by hes

L: words . " But remember , it was you ,
P: words . " But remember it was yon ,

L: not I , who started this conversation . "
P: not i who started this conversation . "

L: " Neither can Nigel , " smiled Diana .
P: " Neither can Nigel , " smiled Diana .

L: " He 's saving up to get married . Remember ? "
P: " He's saving up to get maried . Remember ? "

L: " I remember , " quipped the houseman ,
P: " of remembes , " quiped the houseman ,

L: meaning no offence , " but does he ?
P: meaning no afence , "n but des he ?

L: That blonde was something . " " Anybody
P: That blonde was something . " " Anybody

L: I know ? " she smiled . " I think so .
P: a kenows ? " she smited . " A thinl so .

L: I got a good look at her . But if Nigel
P: Igot a god Cole at hes . But if Nigeh

L: wasn't there it isn't important , is it ? "
P: wasn 'e there it isn't importants i it ? "

L: " No , " Di said immediately . " It isn't at
P: " No , " Dr Said imediatly . " At isn'k at

L: " Oh , he wasn't . His motor-bike had
P: " Ou , he wasn't . Hhis notor -bike had

L: broken down outside and he noticed
P: broten dlown autiside and he noticed

L: your car and then you dancing with
P: your car and then you dancing with

L: this blonde . " " Really ? " Nigel cocked
P: this blonde . " " Realy ? " Nigel coded

L: one eyebrow . " Actually she was brunette
P: one eyebrow . " Actualy she was brunethe

L: at the roots and I had a redhead on
P: at the rots and i had a redtiead an

L: the other arm . He would have told
P: the ofher arm . He would have stold

L: you this , too ? " " No , " she laughed .
P: you this , to ( " " No , " she laughed .

L: " He didn't actually see you . Because
P: " te didn't actualy secyou . Secaurse

L: it was your car I suppose he
P: itwas your car i supose he

L: presumed it was you , all dressed up in
P: presumed it was you , al dresed up in

L: " My white or my black ? " Nigel enquired .
P: "n Hy white or nay black ? " Nigel enquired .

L: " Now I wonder which I wore at that
P: " Now D wondes which I wore at that

L: particular surgery ? " " You are a fool ,
P: particular surgesy? " " you dre a fol ,

L: darling , " Di said happily . " I shall take
P: darling , " Di said hapily . " shal take

L: great pleasure in telling that young man
P: great pleasure in teling that young man

L: exactly what you were doing that
P: excaly what yon where doing thact

L: evening . " " No , don't , " he said , after
P: evening . " " No , don't , " he said , after

L: kissing her again . " I rather like to have
P: lizsing her again . " v rather like 1o have

L: the housemen think of me as a
P: the housemen thinke of me as a

L: I 'm such a dull fellow , really . " " Dull ? " She
P: wh Such a dul feltow , realy . " " Dul ? " she

L: couldn't believe it . Self-deprecation
P: Couldn't believe it . Self- depre catian

L: was not one of Nigel's usual attributes .
P: was not one of Nigel's usual atibutes .

L: " You need your holiday , darling . I only
P: " you ned your holiday , darling . I only

L: wish I could go with you ! " " Doctor
P: wish o could go with yout " " Doctor

L: Wills , if you 're making improper suggestions ... ? "
P: wils , if you're making impropes sugestiens . ? "

L: " It would make me more interesting ,
P: " It would make me more interesting . s

L: I suppose ? " she enquired archly .
P: supose ( " she enquired archly .

L: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almost snapped ,
P: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almest snaped .

L: surprising her . " You sounded like some-
P: surprising her . " You sounded like some-

L: body else for a moment there . It doesn't
P: body etse for a moment there . Ot doesn't

L: become you to behave like a - a tart , Di . "
P: become you to behave like a i a tart ,a . i

L: " Nigel - ! " she gasped . " I didn't mean to
P: " Nigel - ( " she gasped . n o dlidn't mean to

L: behave like anything of the kind . I
P: behave like angthing ofthe kednd . i

L: was only joking . " " Well , don't . It 's
P: was onlyjoking . " " Wel , don't . Ot's

L: miserable enough my having to take my
P: miserable enough my having to take my

L: leave in the autumn without you
P: leare in the antumn withont you

L: trying to be bright and gay about it .
P: arying to be bright and gay abeut it.

L: Their air of smiling somnolence showed them
P: Their air of smiling somlence shored them

L: to have been guests at yesterday's
P: to have ben quests at yerterday's

L: celebrations , and their friendly welcome
P: celebrations , and their friendly welcome

L: and warm sympathy , as she explained
P: and warn sympathy , as she explaimed

L: how she had come to miss the party ,
P: hon she had comne to mi the party ,

L: made her send a complacent glance
P: made her send a complacend glance

L: in Piers' direction . What a fuss-box the
P: in Feirs ' Airection . What a fus-tok the

L: man was , she thought impatiently ,
P: man was , she Chought epatunfly ,

L: trying to worry her into the belief
P: Arying to wory her indo the belief

L: that her failure to appear at a function
P: that her falure to apear at a Ainction

L: on the estate was a major error :
P: on the estate was a magor exror .

L: And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing
P: and then she receinved a gelt . Old Hhebert , standing

L: beside her , his battered hat in his hand , his
P: besite her , his batered Rat in his hand , his

L: toothless mouth stretched in a wide grin , told her
P: toles mouth strlced in a wide grin , Lold her

L: in halting 6patois that " 3Mistah Piers " had
P: in halting Opatois Ehat " BMistak Piurs ' hach

L: explained right at the start that " 3Mis' Beryl "
P: eplained right at the start that " 3this' Beryh "

L: would be 3" plenty , plenty sad " not to be back
P: wauld be 3"plenty , planty sad " nat to be bait at

L: That it wouldn't be her fault at all . That
P: That it uoutan't be her foubt at al . Thast

L: she was a lady who , like her Uncle Charles ,
P: She was a lady who , lke hes Urote Charla ,

L: took the highest pride in keeping her word . " I
P: toch the highest prick in kopieng her word . I

L: could see 3anudder 3t'ing , " he went on in a
P: could se Sanuder Bfing , " he wet on in cn

L: lower voice , his sunken black eyes twinkling .
P: fowves vorce , his susten blach eyes tulikling .

L: 3" He powerful anxious , poor Mistah Piers .
P: gibe pouesful ancions , pous Mistah Pers .

L: We all know how Balicou Island dangerous
P: We al know how Salicon bland dagarons

L: to all kin' o' boats , wid d'ose big , big
P: to al Knl od boats , wid dlose dig . big

L: rocks in an' out o' de water .
P: rocs in ant out o de wocter .

L: He had almost entirely settled back into his old
P: He had almost antirely seted bock into his old

L: ways , even to reading law about two hours each
P: mays , evens te reading law abont two hours each

L: day . Though he did not refuse wine , which the
P: day . Phrough be diod not refuse wine , which then

L: judge always had on the table at dinner , he
P: indgen atoys bad on the toblen at disner ,hen

L: did not act as though he found it necessary
P: did not act as though he found it necesang

L: except in moderate compliance with his father's
P: arcept in moderashen compliancen with bis father's

L: Around that rounded rocky promontory where the
P: frond othat sounald rody promuontory whoe the

L: white spray could be seen flying across the distance
P: White spray conuld be sen fiyring acros the difaice

L: of a mile and a half , came the yawl under her full
P: of a mite and a half , corme the grol unodes hs ful

L: triangular sail , and to the judge's frightened eyes , so
P: trianguter sail , and to the judge's frightend yes , to

L: close to the rocks that it would be dashed
P: elose to the rocks that it would be dashed

L: against them with the lift of the next wave .
P: against them with the lift ofthe nert wore

L: " That boy ! That damned fool boy ! What does he mean
P: ' That bay ! That daned fol bay ! What doer he mean

L: by trying to come home now , even if he did promise ?
P: by tring to come homn now , even if he olol promce ? .

L: What does time mean when weighed against the life of
P: what doer tme muan when wephed grainst the life of

L: two human beings ? " Not until he was certain that the
P: two human beigs ? " Not ml he nar certain thas the

L: yawl had rounded the rocky point instead of
P: paut had rounded the sody paint inrtead of

L: being flung against the huge boulders did the judge
P: being fing granst the hgse bouldurs did the pobpe

L: empty his lungs of stifling air and refill them
P: emply his ungs of sifing air and refl them

L: with part of that howling northwest gale .
P: with part of that houling northert gake .

L: When the wind was on a rampage , as it was
P: Whan the wrind was on a rampaye , as it was

L: now , it could kick up a sea-sized commotion
P: mow , it could kick up a sea- sited comotion

L: where it had a straight blow of eight miles
P: where it had a straight blows of eight miles

L: down the lake . 3" Big blow , Judge , " re-
P: down the lake . B" Big blow , fudge , " re-

L: marked Willie Kim as the wind billowed
P: marked Wilie thim as the wind bilowed

L: out and sucked in his baggy black
P: out and stucked in his bagy black

L: 3" Blow like hell . Maybe by and by
P: I " Ilow pike hetf . Haube by and by

L: she blow some more . " " Hello , Willie , where
P: she blow Some more . " " Hels , Vilie , whes'c

L: did you come from ? " the judge said in
P: did yon come from ? " the findge sand in

L: mild surprise . " I didn't hear you . Do you
P: milh suprise . " I dide't Lear gon . Po you

L: see that fool boy of mine out there on
P: se that fodl boy of mine out there on

L: the lake ? " 3" I see him . You don't need
P: the latce ? " I. I se him . Yon don't ned

L: worry , Judge . Big wind like that can't
P: wory , fudge . Ong wind lie that con if

L: Bill is good man , and Bueno Buck is raised on lake .
P: Bil is god man , and Breno Buckis ransed on take .

L: He no drown , too . Him , his mother throw him into
P: the no drown , to . Iim , his mother throw him into

L: water to make him swim when he is born .
P: water to male him serim when he is form .

L: Maybe so Bill , he can swim that good , too . "
P: Maybe so Bil, he can surimn that god , to . "

L: The yawl , riding the high waves with an air that
P: The yaut , rioding the high wares with an air that

L: might have made an ocean liner envious , seemed
P: might have made an secon tiner euriovs , semed

L: prepared to make a safe though violent landing
P: prepared to make a safe though vielent landing

L: when there came a sudden gust of wind
P: when there came a suden go gust of wind

L: " My God ! " the judge cried out . " The boy
P: " Thy God ! " the judge csied ont . " The boy

L: is going to try to make a landing on the
P: is going to try to make a lauding on the

L: weather side of that pier ! He 'll wreck ! "
P: weather side of that pier ! the'l crecd ! "

L: Willie Kim was speechless , only his slant
P: bilie kim was specdtles , only his slant

L: black eyes showing any emotion . With a
P: black eyes shosing any enotion . With a

L: quick shift of tiller , and at the same time
P: quidk shift of titer , and at the same time

L: jibbing the boom to which he had the
P: jiboing the bom to shich he had the

L: stay rope fastened , Bill made the
P: otay rope fastened , bil madl the

L: It seemed to the frightened judge
P: A semed to the frightened udge

L: as though his son would actually
P: as though his sou would acluably

L: shoot the craft in under the outer
P: suot the cralt in udes te outer

L: end of the wharf . But by pressing
P: and of the wharf . But by piesing

L: the tiller hard over and at the
P: whe titler had over and at te

L: same time dropping the small sheet
P: saune time dsoping the smal skect

L: of wet canvas , Bill cleared the
P: of wet caus , bil cleared te

L: corner of the pier by inches , and
P: coruls of whe pies by incles , ad

L: with the tiller still hard over , brought
P: withe lhe titer stil had oves , brouglt

L: the yawl up against the waves
P: the youl up agaiust the waves

L: " Willie , " the judge said huskily ,
P: aWilie the judge said hurkily ,

L: " that was as pretty a piece of seamans-
P: " that was as prety a pice of teasmaus-

L: hip as I ever saw . That boy of
P: hip o I ever vaw . That hoy of

L: mine seems to know how to do
P: uioe Sems to kmsw how to do

L: everything , when he wants to . "
P: energthing , When he monts to . "

L: " 3Naw , " disputed Willie . 3" Just
P: ' 3 Naw , diz pusted Winklie , g' Tust

L: play in damn fine luck this time .
P: play in danuns froe buck this tine .

L: He plenty smart though . " As they
P: He plenty suort though : As they

L: reached the pier , the judge on legs
P: tached the pier , the judge our lgy

L: that were a little unsteady , they
P: that were a eitle unstready , threy

L: found Bueno Buck , now on the
P: fround Tueno Puck , now on the

L: pier , leading the yawl toward
P: prien-leachoe thegh Jtave tewer

L: " Hello , Dad ! " Bill called . " I hope you
P: " Htelko , Dod ! " Til caled . " I hope ye

L: weren't worried . We 're going to
P: wece't wonried . We've going to

L: drag the boat ashore and turn
P: drog the bot ahore and Lusn

L: her over . She has a foot of
P: hes over . whe hos a eof of

L: water in her . I wouldn't be
P: wake in her . I wouldn 'f he

L: surprised if we broke all
P: Surpised if we buoke ol

L: speed records on the way in .
P: sped recorde on the woey in.

L: Yes sir , I am slightly wet , and
P: fe sir , I aun shightly wef , and

L: Buck would be wetter if he
P: Puch would he weter if he

L: had more clothes on . "
P: had mone cotley ou . I

L: With four doing the job and the waves
P: With four dloing the jols and the waves

L: pushing at the stern , the yawl was soon
P: pushing at the stern , the yaut was son

L: dragged out but before it was turned
P: draged out but befiore it was turned

L: over Bueno Buck reached into the foot
P: over Bueno Buck reached into the fot

L: of water , tossed out a string of silvery
P: of water , tosed out a string of silvery

L: lake trout and said - 3" Bill , he 's better
P: lake trout and saie - 3"Bil , he's beter

L: man at catch 'em than Injun , Judge .
P: man at catch 'em than ingun , yudge .

L: You look . Little one more as fifteen
P: You lok . Litle one more as fiften

L: inches . Maybe big one four feet ,
P: inches . Maybe biy one four fet I

L: " By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! "
P: ' By Greorge , that is a beautifeul string of fish ! "

L: exclaimed the judge . " Toss them on the grass
P: exclaimed the juodge . " Tos ther on the gran

L: and then we 'll all get hold and heave . " A
P: and then we'l al get hold and Peavre . " A

L: few moments later the yawl was upside
P: Geas moments later the jouibl was ypsicle

L: down , exposing its shallow keel .
P: dlown , exeposing iho shalow Kcel .

L: A submariner's wife needed to be spared as much
P: A sutomariner's wfe neded to be spared as mucd

L: as possible . Anyway the Parsifal affair was far
P: as pesible . Rnyway the Parsital afair was far

L: too fresh in both their minds to be a comfortable
P: to fresh in both their minds to be a comfortable

L: subject for discussion . " It 's a command , " he said .
P: subject for discusion . " N's a comand . " he said .

L: We can do with the extra money . It 'll just about
P: We can de wth the extsa money . Itl sist aboul

L: pay Jacky's school fees . " " What shall we do
P: pay Jary's sol fes . " " Whal shal we cfo

L: about this house ? - and Jill's school ? - and oh !
P: about this house ? - and fil's scols - and en ?

L: If I 'd known what it would be like I 'd sooner
P: of Gld Rnown what it would fe like Ild sconer

L: have married a parson . " He kissed her . " Parsons
P: have marnied a parson . " We Risether . " Parson's

L: work on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse off than
P: wor on Sundarys , ' he said . " They 're erseaf than

L: submariners . You ought to have married that fat
P: Submariners . You ought to have maried that fat

L: stockbroker chap and shared him with his three
P: stoltrokor chap and shared him wth his thre

L: mistresses . Anyway it might be much worse .
P: mistreses . Rnywoay it muight be much worse .

L: Pericles is a Portsmouth boat . She spends longer
P: Pericles is a fontsmouth beat . She spoend's longer

L: in harbour than any other submarine .
P: in harbour than any other sutomanines .

L: Practically a shore job . Cheer up . " She wiped
P: Practicaly a shore jots . Cher uyo . " The wsiped

L: her eyes and reached for her address book . " I 'll
P: her eyes and reachod for her adfres bosk . ' gil

L: write to those agents and try to get a flat in
P: wrte do those agents and try to get a flat in

L: Alverstoke , " she said . " But I don't know what
P: Alverstotae , " she said . " But I dbon't Enow what

L: Jill will say about leaving her school . It 's a
P: gil wil say about learing her sco . gt's a

L: blessing that Jacky 's off to boarding school .
P: blesing that Jacly's of to boanding sGod .

L: And all the trouble you 've taken with the
P: fnd ald the touble you 're taken wth the

L: That little beast , Robbie Munyard ! " Having
P: That litle beast , Robie Munyard ! " Iaring

L: said her say Peggy manfully shouldered her
P: said her say Pagy manufuly shouldered her

L: burden and prepared to break up yet
P: brother burden and prepared dto treale upo yet

L: another home . In the ten years of married life
P: another home . In the tenyears of marned life

L: this had already happened half a dozen times .
P: this had alveady hapened half a docen tines .

L: Such is the life of a naval officer's wife .
P: Bud is the lige of a naral afcer's wife .

L: John's father had been a naval officer of the old
P: satn's father had ben a naral aficer of the old

L: school ; some of his rigid ideas had been passed
P: Scol ; some of his rigld idteas had ben pased

L: on to the second generation . One of these was that
P: onto the second generation . One of these was that

L: an officer should join a ship , on taking up a
P: an aficer should soin a ship , on taking upo a

L: new appointment , at nine a.m. precisely , dressed
P: new apointment , at nine am. precisely , dresed

L: in the modern equivalent of frock-coat and sword .
P: in the modern equiralent of frol-coat and suord .

L: It would have been acceptable to all concerned
P: Gt would have ten aceptable to al concerned

L: if John had stepped into Fort Blockhouse clad in
P: of fokn had steped into Part Dlolhouse clad in

L: plain-clothes on the previous night , but ways
P: plain-clothes on the previons night , bud ways

L: instilled by martinet parents have a habit of
P: instiled by mantinet parents have a hakit of

L: So he put up for the night at The Admiral's Head , that
P: So he put up for the rught at The Adniral' Head , that

L: famous Portsmouth hostelry , second only in historic
P: fanonrs Partrnaith Aostelny , secand only in Austerin

L: interest to The George , unhappily destroyed by German
P: 'rtirest to The Ceange , unhapily destrayed by Geman ,

L: bombs during the last war . Having deposited his
P: lomhs during the last wer . Having depasited bis

L: baggage and unpacked his overnight-bag he
P: hagage and umparked his overight-lay he

L: went in search of a drink . The lower bar was
P: wert in seareh afa dvisfe . The lomer har was

L: empty , save for the lady known by all habitue
P: empty , sare for thelady farown by al Aalitue

L: man who was staring moodily into a gin
P: shan who was starng meodily ixte o gin

L: Seaweed's memory was prodigious ; her manner
P: Searved ' , menory wiva, prodigious ; ter savner

L: must have been worth a great deal to the proprietors
P: must hare ben worth a great deal to the propic ten

L: of the hotel . She greeted John , however , with less
P: of the hotd . She greated faten , Rurvever , with les

L: than her usual cordiality and flashed a warning
P: than hs usual cerdiality and flashied a iaming

L: glance at him . Evidently the other occupant
P: glance at him . Evidenkly the cthes acupant

L: of the bar was not 6persona grata . If her
P: of the har was nat Gpersana grata . If her

L: memory was good , so was this stranger's .
P: meney has god , so was this sfronger's

L: " You 're Commander Winter , " he said . " Have a
P: " yau 're Comander Witer he said . tane a

L: gin ? " He turned to Seaweed -
P: gin 2 " the turned to Seaned -

L: " Make it a large one , darling . I know the naval
P: " Hake it a large are , darlinas . I Senvowe the nmal

L: habits . ' Drink gin and call each other wallahs ,
P: Lalits . " Prike gein and cal each athes walalens ,

L: what ! ' - as the Guards officer said on his return
P: what ! ' - as the Ceuards oficer saild on his neluem

L: from a visit to the Royal Navy . Submarines , what .
P: frorn a risit te the Payal Navy . Sulmarines , what .

L: Youngest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled
P: Youngest D.5.C. in the wes , wlat ? Grouled

L: inside a submarine casing to defuse a Jerry
P: unside a sulmarine casing to defuse a forny

L: bomb . Should have been a V.C.
P: donlr , Choula have bes a V.C.

L: What are you waiting for , darling ? The officer is
P: "leatare you waitring for , darling ? The afecar is

L: obviously thirsty . " John fought back his
P: aliausly Ntirsty . " Jati faught Lacle his

L: inherited desire to snub the man . If he did he
P: inhorited desire to shub the man . If he did he

L: would have to leave the bar and either sit in
P: would have to leave the bar and sitaer sit is

L: the lounge or return to his bedroom .
P: the Lange as netumn to his hedroas .

L: Seaweed sensed his embarrassment and
P: Seared sensed his enulamasment and

L: came to the rescue . " You haven't introduced
P: came to the resore . " Yom haven't introduced

L: yourself , " she said with mock severity .
P: yourelf . " she said with mak severity .

L: " It 's a rule on these premises . No treating with
P: " f's a nulear these prenises . To Aresting with

L: strangers - that 's right , John , isn't it ? " " My
P: strangers - Shat 's righst - fale , im'f if 2 " " tly

L: fault entirely , " said the stranger . " It 's my conceited
P: favitevhrvely , " said the stranger . ' It' my conceited

L: nature - I assumed that you both knew who I
P: nature- Janumed that you beth fonener whe !

L: was . I 'm Ian Bawley . Does that mean anything
P: "ias . Iom Jan Ranley . Ses that mean asything

L: to you ? " It did . Ian Bawley's name was
P: Aoyau ? " Afdid . Han Pawle's name Tas

L: printed at the head of most naval articles
P: printed at the dead of mast marsl artucles

L: " Oh , the Press , " said Seaweed . " Down here on business , Mr.
P: " On . the Pres . " said benend ! " down here on businus , Mr.

L: Bawley ? " " A pressman is always on the job . "
P: Bawley ? ' " A presman is alwaygs on the got , "

L: He held out his hand and John could not do
P: He held out his hand and Jotn could not do

L: otherwise than take it . " Pleased to meet you ,
P: otherovise than tate in " pleased to snect you ,

L: Commander , " he said . " Now what about that
P: Comander . he said . " Nous what about that

L: drink ? " John nodded - he could afford to buy
P: drint ? ' Dohen moded - he could aforcd to buy

L: one in return and he was lonely .
P: one in refurn ard he was borely .

L: " For the sake of accuracy , " he said , " and I
P: " for the satke of, acuracy . ' he said , ' and A Rnour

L: know how you newspaper people value that commodity ! -
P: how you neuspoper walue that comodity ! -

L: please don't address me as Commander . I 'm
P: plense dorit adres ae ab Comonder . A m

L: a Lieutenant-Commander . Perhaps we could
P: a Sicutenant-Comander , perhaps ue could

L: drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You 're
P: drop the ranth - such a moutfiful ! " " Jou're

L: absolutely right , " said Bawley , as he pushed over
P: absolutaly right : " said Bawrley , as he pushed over

L: his glass . " Fill it up , darling . Accuracy above
P: his glas . " Fil it up , darbing . Acurncy above

L: all else . We pride ourselves about accuracy on
P: al dse . We pricle ourselres about acuracy on

L: Ever known us bowl a wide about your Service ?
P: Ever Ranowrn as bousl a wide about your Bervice ?

L: Check and counter-check - nothing but the truth .
P: checte and court-checfe - nothing but the eruth .

L: Somewhat embarrassing , what ? " " How can the
P: Bomewthul embarasing , what ? " "n How can the

L: truth be embarrassing ? " John sipped his double
P: truch be enburasing " John siped his double

L: gin with relish . It was his favourite brand ,
P: gin with rotish . Ae was his fuvourile frand ,

L: he was on the verge of a new chapter in
P: he wray on the varge ofs a new chapter in

L: his career , and his companion's attitude was
P: his carer , and his companion's abtitudle mas

L: Life at home and in Bath had been a
P: Libe at homne and in Bath had ben on

L: trifle too comfortable and humdrum .
P: trifle to comfortable and huindrum .

L: He 'd never before met a pressman and
P: te 'd never before met a presman and

L: found him curiously stimulating . " You 're a
P: found him curiously stimulating . " Youre on

L: bit of a humorist , aren't you ? " said
P: bit of a humorist , arert you ? ' said

L: Bawley . " The truth is usually very embarra-
P: Bauliey . ' " The wruth is ensualy very enburma-

L: ssing . You 're in submarines , aren't you ? "
P: sing , Jou'pe in subrnarines , aren't yon '

L: " You know a great deal about me , "
P: " Jour fenous a grent decl about me , '

L: " It 's my business . I 'll tell you more . You 're
P: " Res my busimners . Jil tel you more . You're

L: going to take over command of Pericles . Am I
P: going to tate over cormand of pericles . Am . I

L: right ? " " Who told you ? " " Little bird .
P: right . s . " " Who old you . S . Chitle bird .

L: Other half ? " John nodded . " On me . " Bawley
P: Ocher holf ? Johen moded . " On me : " Pawrlay

L: shook his head . " All paid for by His Lordship , "
P: shote his hend . " " Ael paid for by tis Lordship . '

L: he said . " Expense account . You 're a married
P: he said . " Expense acourt . Joure a maried

L: man with a couple of kids . Can't go wasting
P: man with a couple of feids . Carit yo wusking

L: your substance on a complete stranger . Set
P: yout substance on a complete stranger . But

L: John flushed . " I 'm not in need of charity . " " Come
P: oher plushed . ' I 'mn not in ned of chanty . ' Come

L: off it , " said Bawley . " The proprietor of the Daily
P: of it . ' sail Banly . " The propuicter of the Paily s

L: Courier knows what 's going on . If he doesn't mind ,
P: Caunier hows what's goiny on . If he doesrit mind ,

L: why should you ? " " I see . " John took the
P: why should yeus " " I ge . " efen tok the

L: refilled glass and looked over the rim at his
P: rfiled glas and loked wer the vin at hst

L: companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? "
P: comparsion . ' Your want me to talk , is that it ? "

L: " You misjudge me , " said Bawley . " You have
P: " yu misgidge me , ' said Bauly " you have

L: nothing to tell me , yet . But we 'll be meeting
P: nothing to tel me get . But we'l be mecting

L: again , no doubt , and then you will have .
P: Aegani se doubst , and than yen wil have .

L: Regard this as a softening-up process , and
P: egard this as a softunisy up grous and

L: have dinner with me ? On His Lordship ,
P: have duimer with me . On ths Lordship ,

L: of course . " " On one condition , " said John .
P: of courg " " On ae coudition , ' said otun ,

L: " Tell me who the little bird was . " " Can't
P: Gel me whe the litle bird was . " " Caurt

L: you guess ? Whose portrait appears regularly
P: yun gues ? Wose partrant apears ryulaly

L: " You mean Munyard ? " " Sure . Very useful
P: Yen meane Numyard ? " " Sure . Veny useful

L: contact , is our Robbie ; he gives us the gen and
P: contact , is cur Rabr , he guives us the gen and

L: we give him the publicity . ' The Honourable
P: ue guie huin the publicity . ' The Honourabsle

L: " Robbie " and friend ' , what ? You know the
P: Robrie " and friend ; what yore knew that

L: sort of thing . " " You 'll get nothing out of me , "
P: sart f thrig . " Youl gut nothing out of me , "

L: said John , " but you can pay for my drinks
P: Said Jchn , " but you canr pay for my dinles

L: if you want to , as long as you keep off
P: th you want to , as leny as yor hep of

L: " Good-oh ! One for the grill-room , darling , and
P: " God-dt Oue for the prit-roue dashing , and

L: tell George to bring in the 6carte du jour . "
P: tel Gearge to bring in the barte du jour . "

L: Bawley was a man of his word . He kept
P: Burly was a mangf his word . He hept

L: away from Service matters , was an excellent
P: away pron enve maters , was an excelent

L: host and a splendid raconteur . The evening
P: hest and a splendid racoutr . The ecing

L: passed all too quickly . As they parted in
P: pused al to quickly Ao they parted in

L: the vestibule the two men were well
P: the restbule , the two men were wel

L: disposed towards each other .
P: Lisposld towads one another .

L: " Ever been to Fleet Street ? " asked Bawley .
P: "ever ben to Fhul Stret ashed Baurly .

L: " You should . Next time you 're in Town
P: " You should Arent time gou'se in Tourn

L: give me a ring at this number and I 'll
P: give me a ving ad this number and I 'I

L: take you round the pubs where most
P: take you raund to the pubs wherc mogh

L: of the work is done . " He held out a card .
P: of the work is. done . ' Hto huld out a card .

L: John took it and put it in his pocket .
P: Cehn tok it and put it in his pockef .

L: " Thanks , " he said . " If ever my missus
P: " hauks , " he said . I fevcr my muisus

L: lets me off the chain I 'll take you
P: lets me of the chacin If take y ou

L: Ever been out in a submarine ? I 'll give
P: Ever ben out in a submarine ? I'l give

L: you a spin round one of these days , if you
P: yan a spin round one of these days , if you

L: like . You could write it up . " Bawley made a face .
P: Rike , yon could writ it up . " Boley made a face .

L: " Not in Pericles , old man . " " Why not ? "
P: ' Not in Pericles , old man . " " Why not ? "

L: " Better ask Robbie Munyard . " " What 's he been
P: " Bete ask Robie thumsard . " " What's he ben

L: saying ? " John was furious . The little squirt !
P: saying ? " Joln was furious . The litle squins !

L: To go gassing to a newspaper man !
P: To go gasing to a reuspoyer man '

L: " Look ! " he went on earnestly . " You 're not going
P: " Lok ! " he went on earestly " for ore not going

L: to write up Pericles in some way or other , are
P: to write mf Paricles in some way or other , are

L: you ? " " What is there to write up ? " said
P: yon ? " " What is there to writ up ! " said

L: Bawley . " There are forty-three submarines in
P: Bawley . " There are forly - thrle sulomarines in

L: the Navy - why should I pick on Pericles ? "
P: the Mang - why should I picke on Eeniches ? "

L: John eyed him steadily . " It 's the Parcifal
P: Gohn eyed him steadily . " It ' s the Porcifal

L: business , isn't it ? " he said quietly .
P: buvsimes , in ' I 'It I " he said qucetly .

L: " I don't want it to happen again , " said Bawley -
P: ' I don't want it to hapen again , ' said Baunlay -

L: " more so than ever since I met you . "
P: " more so than ever siuce I met you . "

L: " What did Munyard say ? " " The Snort - hull
P: " W hat did Mhunyard say ? " " The Snort-hul

L: fitting fractured . " " Supposing I was to tell you that
P: fiting fractured . " " Suposing I was to tel you that

L: we 've had Pericles' entire Snort equipment removed
P: we " we had Cerieles ' entieve Snort eymipment removed

L: and X-rayed and that it was as sound as a bell ? "
P: and I-raged and that it was as sound as a bels '

L: " Munyard didn't tell me that . But I must confess
P: " Munyerd diden't tel me that . But uy must confes

L: I 'm relieved . But it still doesn't do away
P: o m relieved . But it stil doesn't do away

L: with the possibility of faulty design . " He held
P: with the posibility of faulty design . " ae heldl

L: out his hand . " Maybe I will take a trip with you
P: out his hand . " Magbe I wil tabke a trip with yon

L: one of these days , " he said . " In the meantime
P: one of these days , " he said . " In the meantine

L: I 'll tell my editor that the story 's a dead bird .
P: o 'f tal my editor that the story's aded bird .

L: Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring -
P: Blad of met gou . Don' forget to give me a ring-

L: any time - knock twice and ask for Bawley , what ? "
P: angtime - Lenod feoice and ard for Bawkay , what ! I

L: " I don't know when that will be , " said John .
P: ' I don't usrow when that wil be , " said fotion .

L: " I shall be busy for a while , cleaning up after
P: " A shal be bousy for a wtite , clearing upo after

L: Master bloody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines ,
P: Master Hody Mungard . " THRE were six submarimes ,

L: lying in pairs alongside the jetty at Fort Blockhouse .
P: lying in pairs alongside the jetly at Ford Dlactouse .

L: Black and grimly businesslike they both looked and
P: Phace and grinly businesdive they both loded and

L: sounded , for all of them were rumbling as they
P: sounded , for al of them ware numtling as thay

L: charged their electric batteries .
P: charged their electric butfenies .

L: A light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhaust in
P: A light wind wogted the omote of diesel exhaust in

L: through the open windows of the Captain's house . It
P: through the open cindos of the Coptain's house . It

L: pervaded every room but neither Harry nor Madeleine
P: pervadted every rom but meither Hary nor Madeleine

L: Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over
P: Turton noticed its evitence as they sut in silence over

L: a substantial breakfast . Although usually a very
P: a subtartial brealfust . Although usualy a very

L: talkative lady Madeleine respected her husband's
P: talative lady Madeleine respected her husbarnd ' s

L: silences , for she knew they betokened a worry of
P: silences , for she knew they betolened a wory of

L: There had been many such breakfasts lately since the
P: There had ben many such brealfast's latly since the

L: affair of Parsifal . Harry had lost a good deal of weight .
P: ofair of Rrsifal . Hary had last a god deal of weight .

L: His normal placid and steady-going manner remained ,
P: His normal placid and steadf rygoing maser resained ,

L: but she could see that it no longer came naturally .
P: but she could se that it no longer came naturaly .

L: It is the common lot of all Squadron Senior Officers
P: It is the comon lot of ol Squadron Senion ofiers

L: to experience such catastrophes as the loss of a submarine ,
P: to experience such catastropshes as the los of a subomurine ,

L: though in peace time these happenings are few and
P: chough in peace time these hapenings are fews and

L: This is the testing time for all . The affair blows up into
P: This is the testingtime for al . The afair blows up into

L: a national disaster and then when it is all over life
P: a national disaster and then when it is al onar life

L: must continue as before . During this period the Captain
P: must continue as before . During this periad the Cayotain

L: must present an unruffled appearance and carry on as
P: must prasent an unmufled apearance and cary on as

L: if nothing unusual has happened . Harry Turton had
P: of notkhing unusual has hapened . Hary Puirton had

L: written letters to the bereaved , had visited many in the
P: woriten lters to the bereaved, had visited many in the

L: locality , had been interviewed by the Press , had driven
P: locality , had ben interviewed by the Pres , had driven

L: his surviving submarines a good deal harder than
P: his surviving submarines a god deal harder than

L: usual and in fact had applied all the usual specifics
P: usual and in fact had aplied al the usual goecifies

L: He rode down to where I was waiting . I was
P: He role dan to where I was wasling . I was

L: thinking what a skill he had for reading
P: thinky whad a stail he had for reacdig

L: my mind . " This would be as good a place
P: mny mind . " This would he as goued a place

L: for a hold-up as any , " he said , reining in
P: for a nolup as any , " he said , raing in

L: near me . " Yes , " I said . " It 'll be here to-
P: ner me . " Yes , ' I said . " I t l be nere to-

L: morrow as likely as not . " I paused . " Miss
P: morow as lilely as not . " Ipaned . " Mns

L: Jeannie 'll be on that coach , Dan . "
P: Seanie ' Al be on that couch , ban . I

L: " Yes , " he said . " I know . " " No harm must come
P: " Yas , " he saind . " Mancw " " No ham must cone

L: to her , Dan . " " She 'll be all right . It 's the
P: to her , Dan . " " Shel he dl rigut . Hs the

L: men who 'll be after that coach I 'm interested
P: men who'l be after that coach I 'm introsted

L: in , Johnny . " " I know . But if lead starts
P: in , Sokrng . " " I know . But ip lead serts

L: flying she might be in danger . " " That 's so .
P: flging she mgld be in dange . n " Thary so .

L: But I reckon they 'll be too busy shooting at
P: But Irecdion they 'l he to buny shoty at

L: us to bother with the coach and the folks
P: ts to bother with the coach and the loles

L: " Maybe , " I said . " But we 've got to remember
P: Tayhe , " I said . " But we've got to remenher

L: that girl all the time , Dan . I feel kind
P: that grl al the time , pan . I lel kind

L: of responsible for her . " " Of course , " he said ,
P: of resporinhle for ner . " " Of couse , " he said ,

L: giving me one of his strange looks . Then he
P: ging me ane of nis Nange lokes . Then he

L: turned the conversation . " Let 's ride over
P: tuned the couversation . " Let) rile wler

L: and have a look at the mining camp .
P: and have a lavk at the uing cams .

L: After all it 's them we 're supposed to be
P: After al is them wele supared to he

L: working for , as well as the townsfolk and
P: werting for , as wel as the touslolk and

L: With something of a start I remembered the
P: with soneting of a sacn I remenhered the

L: man who 'd brought us into this business .
P: man who'd brought ns into this busnen .

L: " Maybe you don't know about Appleton ,
P: " Maghe you donlt row aboud Apleton ,

L: Dan ? " " Know what ? " " That he 's dead , "
P: bun ? 1 " lenows whant ? " " Tat hey dead , "

L: I said . I watched him because I was always
P: I said . I watched him became I was alwvay

L: fascinated by the way he looked when you
P: fascinated by the wany he loked when you

L: tried to surprise him . " Dead ? " he said . " Yes .
P: tied to suprise hin . " pead ? " he said . " Yes ,

L: Dead . Shuffled out of the deck . Blasted
P: dead . Suled ont of the dek . Slarled

L: down with a shotgun outside the Palace
P: donmn with a sholgun outrid the Palace

L: " Fenton or Somers , " he said . " Or the Town
P: " Tenton cr tomes , " he sid . " Or the Tomn

L: Marshal , " I added . His face was fixed ,
P: morshal , ' I aded . His face was fired ,

L: unreadable as a rock . " Let 's get over to the
P: unreadable as a cote . " Lets got over to the

L: mining camp , " he said abruptly . He wheeled
P: mivning camp , " he said abprupity , He wheled

L: his horse back off the trail and up the slope
P: his hase hack of the trail and up the dape

L: leading to the ridge . I followed . From the
P: teacding to the ricye . I foloncely From the

L: top you could see something of the wild hill
P: tops you could de womething of the wild hiel

L: country that lay all round Gilburg Crossing .
P: counlry that ly al arond Biltry Crony .

L: The air was fresh and clear and you
P: The ar was bresh and cler and yun

L: could see far over west and north for many
P: conld se for wesd and worth for many

L: miles . The real high country of the Rockies
P: mules . The real high counly of the Rocies

L: lifted up in the distance like a pale water-
P: cifted up in the distance Wie a pale water-

L: colour drawing . Between us and that lay
P: Colour draning . Getuen us and thad lay

L: a vast stretch of hills , canyons , buttes and
P: a vast wroth of hils , cangun , buls and

L: " The mine-workings lie north of the town , "
P: The mine-wosings he noth of the town, "

L: said Dan . " If we head west we ought to
P: said Ban . " If he head west we oughet to

L: cut the trail leading from Gilburg to the north . "
P: an the brul leading bom Giteg to the noth . "

L: So we swung west , making slow going over
P: So me swkng west , makcng stow going over

L: rough country , sliding on shale , climbing down
P: rough counly , stiding on shale , climbing dom

L: into draws , circling a big mesa by a
P: aito dremurs , aircding a bng mya by a

L: four or five mile valley , sandy-floored . It
P: fou or five mile ralg , sandy-floured . It.

L: got hotter as the day wore on and we rested
P: wit hatler as the dog wore on cnd he reoled

L: gratefully by a small creek where we watered
P: gratefuly by a smal oete where he watered

L: the horses and drank enough to cure our
P: the harses and danle ghough to cre our

L: An hour's riding brought us to a trail that
P: An hour's sidy brouglt us to a sranl that

L: we figured would lead to the miners' camp .
P: whe flyured would lead to the mnety camp .

L: We turned north into it and after about four
P: We tuned noth inde it and after absout fou

L: miles it led into a small canyon which
P: miles it L Inte a smul cangon which

L: opened out into a wide shallow draw .
P: opened and into a mile shalens araw .

L: Here in a dried-up creek-bed we found
P: atere in a dried-ups crelc-hed we fomel

L: the miners at work . They were scattered
P: the miners ct wot . Thy were salered

L: over a fairly wide area working singly or
P: over a faivly mile wea worting ounyly or

L: We didn't approach unchallenged . Just short
P: We aidhn't aproach unchalemput . Dut onon.

L: of the diggings there was a roughly-built
P: of the cligings there was a roughly - buiult

L: shack and as we got near someone inside bawled
P: shack and as we got ner soreoe inpicl bened

L: out , " If you come any closer , I 'll sure blow
P: and , " If ya come any closer , I'l sure bows

L: your whiskers off . " " Take it easy , mister , " I sang
P: yow whiohers of .n 1 Tale it eong , miter , " Wang

L: out . " We don't aim to come any closer and we 've
P: ont . " We dan I ain to come any clos and nehe

L: got no whiskers so as you can see . Just you
P: gut no ntrokcs to ans yon can se . Dut you

L: go and tell Nick Dowd we 've come to talk
P: go and tel Niete Bond weive come to tale

L: to him about what happened last night . "
P: to him abond what hapened lort mnigns . I

L: " Oh , " said the unseen guard . He blew a
P: On , " said the unsen guord . He blen a

L: whistle then , loud and shrill . The gun barrel
P: nhotle then , lond and dhril . The yun boret

L: peeking out through a hole in the shack never
P: peking ont through a hole in the shack never

L: wavered . We sat our horses , waiting . " Looks as
P: wavered . We sat on harses , waity . " Lovky us

L: though they 're expecting trouble , " I said . " Where
P: though they're uxpecty trouble , " I said . " Where

L: there 's gold and women there 's always trouble , "
P: theret gild and woman thert's uburags trouble , '

L: observed Dan , shifting about in his saddle . He
P: observed Dan , hifty abond in his sadle . He

L: Mr. Copthorne knew a way round by the side
P: Mr . Copthome has a way round by the ride

L: of the church where there was a small open
P: of the church where there was a rmal open

L: outbuilding where the grave digger kept his spades
P: ontlivilding where the gravediges legt his spades

L: and forks and tidying up implements . It might
P: and fark and tidying up amplements , At miget

L: be open . It was . He entered , and seated himself
P: He spen At was . Hhe entered , and reaterd himsel

L: in a huddle upon an upturned wheelbarrow .
P: in a hudl upon an uptimed whulbaraws .

L: His curious headgear fell off . Strange things
P: this curions headgeas ful of . Atrange thing

L: were going on in his bewildered brain . When
P: were going on in his demrildered brain . When

L: a man was drowning and towards his last
P: a man was drowuing and Aoward his last

L: gasp it was scientifically supposed his whole
P: garp it wan scietificaly euposed his whrl

L: life came up before him in some cinematic
P: lie cumne up bifhe hin in some anemetsic

L: Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church
P: Mr. Copthorne was on dlry lound in a church sto

L: outbuilding , but this was happening to him now . He
P: outbvilding , lant this mns hopening to him now . He

L: saw himself as a sulky , ugly , malformed , repressed
P: saw humself as a suly , ugly , melforned , represed

L: boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing
P: boy , then a young youth . He saw hirself refusing

L: baptism according to the sect his parents belonged to .
P: buptism acordig to the sect his poents belouget to .

L: Walking out of the chapel later on . Continuing
P: Walking out of the chopel later on Continuing

L: on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-
P: on , his leapeing uind flashed picteres of chi-

L: canery and corruption , the growth of the dea-
P: canery and corption , the gronth of the doa-

L: dly decadence and absorption in debase-
P: dly decadence and absorption in debarse -

L: ment and Satanic debauchery .
P: ment and Satanic debauchery .

L: He didn't know what to make of it , but it
P: the didn't know whot bo make of it , but it

L: was Mr. Copthorne all right . Perhaps he had
P: was Mr. Copthorne al vight . Perhops he had

L: been attending some kind of fancy dress do
P: ben at ending some kind of fancy dres do

L: in London . Very strange his eyes looked . Mad ,
P: in London . Very strange his eyes loked . Mad ,

L: hunted eyes , as if the poor fellow had rocks in
P: hunted eyes , as if the por felow had rocks in

L: his head , so the verger described afterwards .
P: his head , so the verger discribed ofterwands .

L: " You 're very early about , sir , " he said , trying to
P: "n you've very early about , sir , " he said , hrying to

L: " Yes . I travelled down from London
P: ulfes . D Aranelel ofon from demadan

L: as the dawn was breaking , and
P: as the clamn was brecting , ounel

L: the thought came to me I 'd like
P: the thocghf came to me ol laice

L: to take a look at the church . I 've
P: ta take a lok ot the aliurel . Dme

L: never been inside . Very remiss of
P: meven hev-cmecide . lng aemigeh

L: me , " said Mr. Copthorne . The verger
P: ane , " srcae alor Copeplbeme . Ohe coger

L: led the way in . " The stained glass
P: hak the mag in . " The staned gome

L: windows , sir , they date back to
P: suimdams , sir , theg ohale hock tho

L: the fourteenth century . "
P: tle facunenl cendang . n

L: There were few passengers on the plane and Gavin was
P: There were flew pasengers on the plane and Gavin was

L: quickly through the customs . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl
P: quiby through the cstoms . " Gay . " " Gavin ! " The girt

L: and her luggage had disappeared and they were alone
P: and her lgage had disapeared and they were atone

L: together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the
P: together . The porter brought Gavin's bay out to the

L: taxi . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin pressed her
P: tai " Sust a moment , darling , " Gavin presed her

L: hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the
P: hand and smiled . , I want to chack up on the

L: Gay went out to the waiting
P: fay went out to the woiting

L: taxi , and then found that in
P: toer' , auce then fancl theoet in

L: the excitement of meeting
P: the excitement of meting

L: Gavin she had left her sun-
P: Gcevin she had left her su-

L: glasses on the veranda . She
P: glcses on the rerad . She

L: went quickly back to fetch them .
P: weut oruickly bauch to fetal them .

L: Gavin and the girl who had got
P: Gacin and the grirl who had got

L: off the plane with him were talking .
P: of the plane with him were talking .

L: He was writing something in his
P: te uas writing something , is les

L: pocket-book , with a sick feeling
P: pochet - bon , with a vicd feling

L: of despair Gay knew that of course
P: of deopais fay knew thot of couerse

L: Gay , sitting opposite Gavin on the terrace could
P: Gay , snthing oposite Gavin on the temrase could

L: hardly believe that she was the same girl ,
P: handly behieive that she was the some giak ,

L: miserable , shy , who had sat at the little
P: miserable , yly , who tad sot at the litle

L: table for the first time a few days ago .
P: table for the first hime a tew days ago .

L: Gavin raised his glass to her and smiled
P: Ogovin rausaed his gfos to ten and smiled

L: and Gay's heart turned over . " I 'd like
P: and Gray's heal turned over . " I ' d likhe

L: to do that . " Gavin drained his glass
P: to do that . " Govrin drained his glan

L: " And then we 'll go for a stroll along the
P: I And than we ' ae go for a stral along 1he

L: beach . A moon like this mustn't be wasted . "
P: ceacds . A ucon like this mustn't be wasted . "

L: He gestured towards the bay where the full
P: He geshuired tavards the bay whrere the ful

L: moon was just rising over the rocks , then
P: won was gust rioing oer the rods , then

L: laid his hand on hers . Gay smiled at him
P: lad his uand on Nar. Gay auiled at uie

L: again , happy beyond belief , knowing that
P: again , uapy beyond bercef , unaving that

L: now Gavin was in love with her and her
P: nay gavin wa in cove withver g har

L: only , yet remembering for a second the
P: anly , yet revaubering for a scond the

L: kisses she had seen him giving Elaine .
P: lises he had sean hin giving Elaine .

L: All that was part of the past , she would put it behind her . She
P: Old tat was part of the past , the would put it beind her . Ste

L: would never be jealous again , would even take Larry's advice and
P: would never be gedousagain , would en take Rary's adurce and

L: look the other way if need be . " I say ! " Gavin was looking over her
P: Nor the other way if ned be. " I say ' " Gaun was oking aver her

L: shoulder . " That 's a pretty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Isn't she
P: soulter , That's a prety girl ! " Gay glanced Bethind Mer , , dan't sthe

L: lovely , she 's French , a very well known model I believe .
P: lovely , she 's French , a very wel know modl believe :

L: Gay , a little puzzled , went through
P: Tay , a litle pugled , went theough

L: to the bar . Doc and Lilyan were
P: to the kae . doe and hilyamn we

L: sitting just inside having coffee .
P: siting just inside having cofe .

L: " Come and join us and bring your
P: " Come and join us and baing youe

L: boy friend , " Doc called . " No , Doc ! "
P: boy fivend ! " 0o caled . " No , Dea . ! "

L: Lilyan remonstrated . " They want to be
P: filyan cemorsteated . " They want to be

L: alone . " " I 've booked a table at the
P: alonse . " " I 've boked a table at the

L: tonight so come and join us if you
P: tonight so come and join us if you

L: can't find a table for two . "
P: Com't frnd a table for uro . "

L: The others were all dancing and
P: The athies were al dancing and

L: as Gay drew out a chair and sat
P: as fay dhew ouct a chaice and sat .

L: down Gavin , without a word , swept
P: ctown favien , without a wond , suvept

L: Simone on to the floor . " It doesn't mean
P: Simone an to the floce . ' A doesul srean

L: anything , " Gay told herself desperately ,
P: angthing , " Say told heself despecately .

L: trying to understand Gavin's point of
P: tnying to enderstand gouren point of

L: view and remembering the advice
P: views and nemerbeing the advice

L: that Larry had given her , while she
P: that daceg had given her , while she

L: felt wretched beyond words .
P: felt wetchied beyound woeds .

L: Gay thanked him and walked out on to
P: Gay thaukedhim and walked out an to

L: the terrace thinking that perhaps Gavin
P: te terace M intcing that perhaps gavic

L: had bought a drink and taken it outside .
P: had bacuight a dtiul and taken if cutsicte .

L: She looked round scanning the tables ,
P: the Loked nound scaming the tobes ,

L: then caught her breath , a cold hand
P: them caunght his bseath , a cold hand

L: seeming to clutch her heart . Gavin was
P: sucentng to cenld his Llart , gavin was

L: seated at a small table in a shadowy
P: searted ot a sual table in a shadony

L: corner talking animatedly to Simone .
P: cotuet talking auiuatedly to smone .

L: As Gay watched he offered the girl a
P: as gay watched h1 Ofesed the gixe a

L: cigarette and lit it , his hands cupping
P: cigasete and lit it , Lis hauds oupring

L: hers in an intimate way .
P: anis in a itinuate woy

L: Gay stood irresolute for a moment , half
P: Gay stod isresohute fos a momt , Raep

L: decided to go back and join Lilyan and
P: decided to go bacd and joi Lilyon and

L: Doc , while she wanted to do no more than
P: Go , whie she wauted to do no more tham

L: run upstairs to her room , knowing that
P: mn upstaits tokes rom , tuowsing that

L: Gavin although he had told her that he
P: govin athough he had told his thot be

L: loved her , was already flirting with a girl
P: Lovedhes , was already fensting with a gixl

L: that he had only met a few minutes before .
P: that he Lod only met a few miutus beforte .

L: Larry's advice flashed through her mind ,
P: cory's dvice flashed trough her mind ,

L: but she turned away , giving a little
P: but she turised away , giving a lite

L: gesture of hopelessness , knowing that her
P: grsunre oh hopelesmen , Aonowing thalis

L: His behaviour was not only boorish and in the worst of
P: fis behariour was not only barish and the worst of

L: taste but it was unkind beyond words . She fumbled
P: farte but it was untind beyend word . The fumbled

L: with the cigarette packet which lay on the table
P: with the eigarate frackel which lay on the table

L: not wanting to smoke but needing some action
P: not wanting to smoke but neding come action

L: to help her control her feelings . " Come and
P: to help her control hr furling . . " fomse and

L: dance , " Doc's cheery voice came as a
P: dance g ' Dot'a chery uoice came an a

L: lifeline and Gay got up quickly , mana-
P: lifetine and bng got up guictely , mana-

L: As he swung her on to the floor Gay saw Gavin
P: As he swung her on to the flor Gay sow havin

L: and Simone go through the doorway that led
P: and simne go through the doray that ted

L: down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a
P: down to the beach . Gay closed her gyes for a

L: moment in disgust . She was fully aware that Gavin
P: moment in disqurt . She won fuly amsare that Cain

L: would make love to the French girl on the sands ,
P: wold mae lovse to the French girl on the sands ,

L: and no doubt he would come back soon and
P: and no dovit he would came back son and

L: after Simone had left expect her to accept his
P: after simone had left expect her to acgpt his

L: kisses on the way back to the hotel .
P: lrises on the way bad to the hafel .

L: Sentence Database P02-109
P: oto Bkeb OR-109

L: " And that 's the man whom you have been eating your
P: T And thal's the man-whor - you have ben-edling your

L: heart out over ? " Doc nodded towards the door . " You
P: heat out over ? " Doe noded towards the dor . ' You

L: may consider him a man , I would say he was a
P: may consider him a man , I would say he was a

L: mentally adolescent cad . " " Oh , Doc ... " Gay protested
P: moly adolescest cad . " , Ch , De. ' bay protested

L: weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I 've only met him
P: weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " ' I 'ye only met him

L: today but I think I can safely say that I know
P: today but I thints I can sately say that I know

L: him a great deal better than you do . "
P: hin a great dead beter than you do. "

L: Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up
P: Poe gave her hand a shake . " Wake up

L: Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing
P: Gay , and don't even contemplale throwing

L: yourself away on a chap like that . You 're a
P: yourself away on a chap like that . Vocive a

L: fine girl , intelligent , and pretty , and I had
P: fine gil , inteligent , and prelty , and I had

L: thought you were sensible too . Don't
P: thought your were sensible to . Pon't

L: make a fool of yourself over someone
P: make a fol of yourself over someone

L: who doesn't care two jots for your feelings .
P: who doesn't care two jots for your felings .

L: If he behaves like this now what is your
P: If he behaves like this now what is your

L: married life going to be like ?
P: maried life going to be likse I

L: Hell . " Doc answered for her . " Just Hell . Never able to
P: itf . " Due answered for her . " fust hel . Never atle to

L: trust him out of your sight and having to put on
P: tust him out of your sight and having to put on

L: a brave face and pretend that you don't mind
P: a bvave face and pretend that you dout mind

L: whenever he flirts with another woman . He will
P: Whenever he flinsts with ancther srman the wil

L: you know , always , and you aren't the type
P: you haow , aluauygs , and you avent the tyse

L: who is tough enough to change him . "
P: who is tough encugh to change him . "

L: Gay nodded . " I know that you 're right Doc , I think
P: Gay moded . '" I know that yoise rught Pre , ' think

L: now that I do realise that , and in any case , " she added
P: mere that I do mealise that , and in any case , the aded

L: a little sadly , " if I did change Gavin , he wouldn't
P: a litle At sradly , ' if I did change Gain , he wouldit

L: be the same , if you know what I mean . " " You sound
P: be the same , if you kns rotat I mean . dou sound

L: like Alice in Wonderland , " Doc gently mocked her , " and
P: like Wlice in Nrendeland , ' Be gently mocked her , and

L: I 'm glad you 're beginning to see that you 're wasting
P: I 'm glad yoire begining to se that yeire wasting

L: Now let him go and you won't have to wait
P: Now let him go and you won't have to wait

L: long for the right man for you to come
P: long for the right man for you to come

L: along . If I was thirty years younger and weren't
P: along . If I was thirly years jounger and weren't

L: married to the sweetest wife in the world
P: maried to the swetest wife in the world

L: I 'd marry you myself . " Gay laughed , Doc was
P: Id marny you mysetf . " Cay laughed , Doe was

L: so kind and nice and she hoped that one
P: so kind aud nice and she hoped that one

L: day she would be able to see the situation
P: day she would be able to se the situation

L: as it obviously appeared to everyone else .
P: as it obviously apeared to everyone else .

L: Doc asked Lilyan to dance and once
P: Doe ashol Silyan To dance and ance

L: again Gay found herself alone at the table
P: again Gay Gand heself alone at the tabl

L: feeling self-conscious and awkward , sure that
P: Geling self-conscions and autuand , sune that

L: people were talking about the way Gavin
P: pesgl me talhing abant the way Gouin

L: was behaving since they had seen them
P: mas behaving sine they had sen Them

L: dining together . She opened her bag
P: ding Iagethn . She spened he bagy

L: to get out her compact and saw Grace's
P: ts get sut hen conpact and sow Grane's

L: letter . She drew it out and opened it ,
P: leten . She deu it sut and ropened it ,

L: glad to be able to occupy herself .
P: glad ts be able Is scuny heself .

L: " So glad that you are having such a lovely time , dearie , "
P: " So glad that you are having such a fovdly lime , dearie , "

L: it ran . " Your cards are lovely . I rang up Miss Harland
P: it nan . ' oun cands ase fovely . I nang up this Harfand ex

L: and have been over to sit with her father and do what
P: and have ben oven to sit with fer tathr and do what

L: I can for him so that she can get out to do her shopping .
P: I can fon him so that she can get out to do hen shoping .

L: He 's getting on well but is pretty helpless still with his
P: He's geting on welf but is proly heples slif with his

L: No other news except that Elaine is engaged
P: No other news except Claine is engaged

L: and going to marry a foreigner ... "
P: ard goling to mary a foreignef . I ' .

L: Gay read the rest of the letter then put
P: Gay read the rest of the leter put

L: it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged ,
P: it back in her bay , Claine was engaged ,

L: to the man she had spent so much time
P: to the man she had spent so much timse

L: with at her party . That was why
P: with at het party . That was wty

L: Gavin had come back to her .
P: bawin had come back to her .

L: Everything was quite clear now , and to
P: Evesyting was gut clear non , and to

L: her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak ,
P: her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak ,

L: rather a sense of relief now that she
P: rather a sense of retief now that she

L: knew why Gavin had come to see
P: knew why Gavin had corne to se

L: Because she was second best . The others came back
P: Because she wos second best . The others came back To

L: to the table , all of them making a fuss of her and at once
P: The tabte , al of then makiys a fuer of her and at one she

L: she felt happier . Gay loved them for their warm sympathy ,
P: Fet hopios , Bay boud them for thoir war smpaty ,

L: knowing that they were real friends , even if they were new ones .
P: knowig that they wer seal , even if they were new ones

L: " That is a pretty dress , " Lilyan commented , obviously sensing
P: ' That is a pretly dtes ' , Cihan comented , dburouty sening

L: Gay's distress and in a way that Doc , as a man , could not
P: Goyis distues and ina way that Doe ,as a ran , could not

L: understand , knowing that Gay was as much ashamed
P: understond , tnourng That Goy was ar mach ashanad

L: for Gavin at the way he was behaving as she
P: For gain a the way he was Behaving as she

L: " I made it myself , " Gay tried to speak
P: I I made it myself , " Glay triad to gpeake

L: Diana Wills often sat on the brand
P: Riana Wils often sak an the brand

L: new seat outside the hospital
P: meu seat ontside the hospitonp

L: gates and thought vagrant
P: gates and thonght ueagrant

L: thoughts . At one time she had
P: thenghks . Ak ome trime she had

L: watched the workmen constructing
P: makched the mantmen constuncting

L: the roundabout , which was
P: the romnd - abant , which mas poaf

L: to put St. John's Casualty Department
P: to pat St. Joha's casmalty Depantment.

L: out of operation - in theory , at
P: ank of apenation - in Aheany , ant

L: least . She would think of her-
P: Teask . She wonld think of hen-

L: self as a stranger in these parts
P: self as a stanger in these pants

L: studying these cross-roads . Which
P: studying those crosrads . which

L: " If I were a tramp I would simply blow a
P: da t hen e t mn t me n sneph ien e

L: feather , " she decided , rather envying the gentle-
P: feather , "' she decided , rather enuying the sentlen

L: man of the road his freedom of decision , and
P: man of the road his freadam of decision , and

L: wishing life would sometimes allow serious-minded
P: wishing like would sometines alow serios-minded

L: women doctors to blow a feather and follow its
P: Soe dectons tNDl a fafen a RalasRits

L: airy directions accordingly . " If I were needing a
P: dm, d vetiete on o h th t uene nedang a

L: job I 'd go to London , of course , " she went on .
P: Sah l A go t ladont h e se t ge et an

L: " There are all sorts of wonder-
P: ' There are al sorts of wonder -.

L: ful jobs in London and I could
P: fut yobs in Condon and I could

L: take my pick , whereas in Yarmouth
P: talse my picls , wherecr in Marmonth

L: one has to know something about fishing
P: ane has to knou Something aout fiking

L: and in Liverpool they 'd want sea-farers .
P: and in liverposl they'od want sea-farers .

L: I don't think I 'd go to Edinburgh un-
P: I don't thite I of go to Eisburgh un-

L: less I was a Scot and wanting to get
P: le I war a Scot and wenting to get

L: home , or perhaps a student studying to
P: home , or perhaps a studend study ing to

L: be a doctor , and I already know
P: be a cloctor , and I atreadly kanow

L: She was engaged to Nigel , had been for two years .
P: The was engaged to rigel , had wen for two yeares .

L: Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get married " ,
P: Somermes they tathed on te trome of ' wnon we get maned ' ,

L: and then all was wonderful , and perhaps it had only been
P: and then ad was wonderue , and parape it had only ben

L: a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last
P: a seip f the tongie when Mige had ward , only last

L: evening , " If we get married , old girl , you 'll have to stop
P: evening , ' If we gel marned , old gie , you be have to wtop

L: She couldn't remember what they had been talking about or
P: the ouldn't remembes what they had ben talkiny about o

L: which ' lark ' she would have to stop , only that significant tiny
P: wluch " fast " she would har 's maps , auly that symifirant tiny

L: word shouted into her very soul a horn of warning , and
P: word suonted it hes vey sant a homn of warning , and

L: with it was coupled a disembodied fragment of information ,
P: wlh it was coupled a axscutrodied froyment of infruation ,

L: which now took on an ominous significance : Nigel had been
P: which now # tok an aminons syuificance . Nigd had ben

L: seen in Farlingham on an occasion he had sworn he had
P: sun in Farluyghan on an ocasion he had swan he had

L: been standing in for Luke Parsons at his surgery in
P: hen standing in for lke Rastms at his srpey in

L: Now Nigel had every right to go where he
P: Now Higel had everg right to go where he

L: liked during his off-duty periods
P: Liked tegotere during his of-duty geriodls

L: when she was not free ; this much they had
P: when she was not fre ; this much they had

L: conceded one to the other . They rarely
P: conceded one to the other . They rarely

L: found they were off duty together , and
P: found they were of dnty together , and

L: the situation would have been intolerable
P: the situation would have den intoleradle

L: had there not been some give and take
P: had there not ben given aucd take

L: about their relationship . So when Nigel
P: about their relatiouship . So when Migel

L: had told her about taking Luke's
P: had told her adout Eaking Cnbre's

L: evening surgery she had said ,
P: evening surgery dhe had soid ,

L: " Bless you ! I hope Luke is suitably grateful , darling . " " Oh , well , "
P: "ear sar ! ' rore hke a suirngus oanrern sains . " " Ox , wa , "

L: he shrugged diffidently , " I like the work . One gets plenty
P: He sraucor oipsiparius , " I hire ihe rork , ane bes prors

L: of variety and it 's a change . " Nigel was the hospital's
P: of Inarow ao tis a arpaoe . n Miae was the respim's

L: Junior Medical Officer . " You won't be free about nine , I
P: Gure maion opfrce . " don tow's I noet aeant wur , '

L: suppose , to meet me for supper somewhere ? " she had
P: furars , to met me so supre cemeureve , " shre tho

L: " Hardly likely , my sweet . Luke's surgery goes on for
P: " Harly likely , my swet . Luke'a surgery goes on for

L: hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even
P: hours . If they get in before eight-thinty , even

L: though they 're standing on one another's toes ,
P: though thayive standing on one another's foes ,

L: I 've got to see 'em . If I am free , though ,
P: I ve got to selen . I I an fre , though ,

L: I 'll give you a ring , O.K. ? " O.K. , " she had
P: Il give you a ving .D.R. . " O.t. ,. " she had

L: replied readily . So how could Nigel have
P: replied readily . So how could Nigel have

L: been at the Load of Trouble roadhouse ,
P: ben at tke Load of Rrouble road house ,

L: dancing with a blonde at eight-thirty that
P: dancing with a bloude al eight thisty that

L: " No , " she told Phil Gubbins , a junior
P: wtor . " she Aold Thil Gublins , a gunion

L: houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you saw ,
P: houseman , " it wasn.' t Nigel you sour ,

L: my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway .
P: my lad . " . It was Nigel 's car , anyway .

L: NUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car
P: NhF 121 . ' . He probably loaned his car

L: to somebody , Phil . He 's always doing that . "
P: to somebody ., Thil . he'" always doing that . '

L: Young Gubbins shrugged . " I didn't see his
P: Young Gulbies shruged . " I diolu't se his

L: face , Di , but it certainly looked like
P: face . Di , but it certainly loked libe

L: Nigel from the back . D.j. and all .
P: Wigel from the back . P.I-audal .

L: Of course such as I couldn't afford
P: Of coure such as 1y couldn't afard

L: to go into the Load of Trouble . "
P: to go into the Load of Trouble . "

L: But after that slight slip of the tongue on Nigel's part she had
P: But after thad slight sip of the tonghe on Nigeh's pat the had

L: realised it was important enough for her to have remembered , and it
P: realised it was inportarl enough for her to havo remenberat , and it

L: was as though a red mist veiled her usually clear sight and
P: mas as thagh a red mist weiled her uoualy clear sight and

L: made her think there was an abyss immediately ahead .
P: macke has thish these was an alges inmediately ahead .

L: " Nigel , " she had besought him , " you know that evening
P: " Niget , " she had besought him , " gou hnow that everning

L: you took Luke Parson's surgery and there was a woman
P: you toch lako Rrson's angery and there was a coman

L: with a cyst on her ear ... ? "
P: with a aget on hes ear . Tl

L: " 5Ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kissed her on the
P: " ye-es ? " he lowered his eyges and rised her on the

L: mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge .
P: mouth , an act of devotion he didm't over-indulye .

L: " What about it , my sweet ? " " Well , " she laughed
P: ' What about it , any suret ? " " Wel , ' she baughed

L: suddenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid
P: sudenly in an upsunging of relif , " that shpid

L: Gubbins boy thought he saw you at the Load of Trouble .
P: Gutins boy thought he saw you at the dead of Troble .

L: With a blonde , too . Imagine ! " Nigel was frowning . He
P: With a belonde , to . Inagine ! " Migel was frowming . He

L: looked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly
P: Noked distinguished when he froumed ; begishly

L: " Gubbins ? Gubbins ? " he fretted . " Who 's he ? "
P: " Gublins ? Gubins ? " he freter . ' Who's be ?.

L: Though Diana knew the name of every
P: Fhough Biane knen the namne of every

L: member of the staff , distinguished or not ,
P: memben of the staft , dcistinguistere on mat

L: Nigel often had to think hard to sort
P: Nigel often hae to think hard to soxt

L: them out . " He 's the carrotty lad , isn't he ? "
P: then out . " We 's the camoty lace , inl hes"

L: he now demanded . " What was he
P: he mom emandr . ' Iherx mas he

L: doing at the Load of Trouble ? "
P: oloing a t the Loae of Grouele ? . "

L: I 'm going with a shooting party . What else can I do
P: Iin going with a shosting parny . What else can l do

L: at this time of year ? I can't ask you up because it 's
P: at this time of year " I can't ask youp because it's

L: a strictly stag affair . " " I know . I didn't expect ... " " Well ,
P: a strictly slag afarl " '" I krow . Ididn't expect . " Wel ,

L: don't keep hinting , then . You wish you could
P: don' I kep hinting , then . You wish yr could

L: come with me ; you hope I 'll miss you ; you
P: rome with me'; yon hope I'l mis you ; you

L: can't imagine the hospital without me for
P: can't mapine the hospital withont me for

L: three weeks , etcetera , etcetera ! "
P: thre waeks , elcelesa , etcelera y J

L: Her figure was small and exquisite , like a schoolgirl's still , and
P: Her fiqiue was sral and exqpisite , the a strolgin's stil , and

L: he admired her legs , which the male sex were inclined to
P: he admnred ter legs , which the mate sor wore inclined to

L: regard first . " I would mind if you didn't " he told her
P: regord frst . " I wound maind if you didn't " he tad her

L: grimly , and tugged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're
P: ginly , and tuged her fiercely into his crms . " Vou'se

L: right , pet . I do need this leave . I 'm bad-tempered and
P: right , pet . I do mad this leave . I'm bed-tempered ard

L: broody and going out with brash blondes . I don't deserve
P: brody and gang aut with hrusth bondes . I aern't depeise

L: " Darling ! " her voiced caressed him . " Moments like this
P: Barling her voiced caresed him . " Haments like this

L: make all the waiting worth while . When we 're
P: make al the waiting worth while . When we 're

L: married we won't have these explosions of emotion ,
P: maried we wo't have these explesious of emotiay

L: will we ? " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish we
P: wil we ( " " No , " he eyet her strangely . " I wish we

L: were married , Di . Like a patient wishes his operation
P: were marned , D , like a prtrent woher his operation

L: was over . " Again her laughter trilled . " Marriage
P: was oves . " Again her laughter trileal . " Marnige

L: isn't as bad as an operation , Nigel ! "
P: But as Lad as an operation Nigel ! "

L: " Isn't it ? " he rose and smoothed himself
P: " uit it ' he rose and smothed himself

L: down . " Ask any bridegroom-to-be . Anyhow ,
P: doun . " Ash any bridegrou-tobe . Anyhow ,

L: that particular problem isn't looming at
P: that particular problem isuit loning at

L: the moment , thank God ! " Problem ... ?
P: the moment , thanh God ! ' Problem . I.

L: looming ... ? " Are we discussing a marriage
P: loning . ? " Are we discusing a mariage

L: or a burial ? " she asked , hardly believing
P: or a burial ? " she ashed , hardly believing

L: he could be serious . " Surely marrying
P: he could be serious . " Surely marying

L: me isn't going to be all that bad ?
P: me isn't going to be al that bad ?

L: If it is - " she laughed uncertainly - " you can have
P: If i i-i she laughed uncertainly - " you can nave

L: your ring back . " She loosened the half-hoop of
P: your ning back . ' she rosened the nalf - nop of

L: diamonds on her left hand third finger and held it
P: damonds on ner bf hand tird finger and held it

L: out to him , still playfully . Without a glimmer
P: ont to him , shin playuny . wirhout a ghmer

L: of amusement in his own eyes , however , he took
P: of amnsement in his oun eyes , nowever , he toh

L: it , looking moodily beyond her . " Perhaps it 's as
P: I . Toking modily beyand ner. ' Perhaps i's as

L: well if you don't wear it for a bit , Di , " he
P: wal if you don't wear it for a bit , or , " he

L: " But I want it ! " she protested . " It 's my ring . "
P: B ut I want it seh porotenterd . Is my ring . "

L: " You just gave it back to me . " " I
P: " yau grt garve it bach for me ! " I

L: didn't ! I was joking . You know I was
P: distor H. . I wes joting . fon lnonr ) was

L: joking , Nigel . " " You shouldn't joke
P: foting , Mged " " yon shouldn l joter

L: about serious things like engagements . "
P: asout senious thing life engraguments "

L: " Don't be such a baby ! " They were going
P: " pont be such a baby , " They were goings

L: to have an open quarrel
P: fo have oun opensqurarmel any

L: any minute , and she knew it .
P: himrte , aud she leneur it .

L: Almost in desperation she appealed , " Will you meet
P: Almost in desperation she apealed , " Wil you met

L: me at the gate , four o'clock tomorrow ? " " Why ? " he
P: me at the gat , fou dclock tomorow? " " Why , " he

L: enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring
P: enguired , combing his thick , taung hair . " To bring

L: me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I 'll see , "
P: me up for tea , of course . I just thorght Bil ser ,

L: he told her , and suddenly seized her in an embrace
P: he told hes , and sudenly seized her in an embrace

L: which really hurt . " Without your ring it 's just like
P: which realy hurk . " Without your ring it 's just like

L: kissing somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,
P: kising somebody else's girl , ' he decided wickedly ,

L: and kissed her again , somewhat startled to
P: and kised her again , somewhat statled to

L: receive a sharp slap for his pains .
P: receineg a sherp slap For his pains .

L: " If I were somebody else's girl that 's
P: ' 9f I wore somebody efsie's girk that's ,

L: what you 'd get , " she flashed at him , and
P: what yoe'd get , ' she flashed at him , and

L: so had left him , on her dignity and not
P: so hat feft him , on her dignity and not

L: seeing the look of admiration and revelation
P: seing the lok ofadmiration and revetation

L: which had followed her slim young figure
P: Whieh had folowed her slim yowng figure

L: out of his sight . " Mine , " Nigel Lester had
P: out of his sight . " Mine . " Nigel Lestor had

L: decided with a sigh of satisfaction , and
P: decided with a sigh of satis factionrand

L: then regarded the ring which he retrieved
P: Rthen regarctod the ring wich he retrieved

L: from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded ,
P: from his pocket . ' At a price , " he concluded ,

L: with some bitterness .
P: with some bifernes .

L: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now
P: Thus had they parted the previons evening and now

L: Diana was trailing up the gravelled drive to the hospital
P: Piana was trailing up the graveled drive to the eoptat

L: alone . Of course one couldn't say for certain when a
P: alone . Of conrse one couldn't smy for certain when a

L: doctor would be free during the day ; tea was served
P: doctor would be fre during the day ; tea was served

L: from four until five-thirty in the residents' common-
P: from four util five-thirty in the residents' comon

L: room , which proved the elasticity of medical commitments .
P: rom , which proved the elastcity of medical comitmente .

L: Something had cropped up which required Nigel's attention ,
P: Something hed croped up which reguned Nael's atention ,

L: she was convinced , or he would have granted her small request
P: the ws consinced or would have granted hersmal regrest

L: Sentence Database P03-189
P: " intenece Datakase Po3- 189

L: They often had such a rendezvous , for
P: They aftem had such a rendeguons , for

L: there was just time to smoke a cigarette ,
P: there was gist time to smote a cigorete ,

L: if one walked slowly , between road and
P: if ane walkel slaroly , hetrmen toad and

L: His mouth hardened , his eyes became
P: This mouth hardened , his eyes became

L: steely . ' I see . ' Scorn lashed his
P: stely , n se.' Scor lashed his

L: words . ' I wonder you dared trust
P: words . I womous yom dared trust

L: him to my care . ' ' Nicholas - '
P: hisn to my care ' ' Mcbolas . '

L: ' Well ! At least I know the truth .
P: " Wel ! Af least I benons the truth .

L: Truth ! ' His gaze held hers
P: Truth ! . ' Jhis gage held bers

L: masterfully . ' You wanted it so
P: mastecfuly . ' You wamted if so

L: badly - at any price . I hope
P: fradly ' af any prece . Thope

L: you are satisfied . '
P: yon are satisfried .

L: And as he spoke , the thought
P: And as herpoke , the thought

L: of Philip lying in the other
P: of Philig lyin , in the ofher

L: room filled him with a re-
P: rom filed limn wilh a re-

L: vulsion that was homicidal .
P: voulation that wastomocidal .

L: Even in that , his hands were
P: Gren in fhae hns Llnls erere

L: tied . He dare not precipitate
P: tred . Ohe daure not precupitale

L: what might well be another
P: what mght wel be anothes .

L: coronary . And in that second
P: Coroncrgagtud inthat second

L: he put back his professional
P: he punt ack hisprofesional

L: mantle , and said with such
P: mautle , and sand with cuch

L: icy politeness , such withdrawn
P: Ccy poltenes , uch wthlianr

L: ' I will leave you the necessary pre-
P: ' I wul leauve yonthe cesary gre-

L: scription for the sedatives . You
P: scrigtirus for the rsedatures . fon

L: will contact your new doctor
P: wil contact youshens do ons

L: when you reach your parents'
P: uhenly on reach yone parents '

L: house . ' She watched him flick
P: honme . ' Shewatled him flick

L: his fountain-pen from his
P: his fountam-pen firom hing

L: waistcoat pocket , take out
P: mans t coat pochet , take out

L: his # prescription pad , and
P: hi #on pre scmpton pad , and

L: # scribble on it . Then ,
P: bet sarible an ih . Then ,

L: with a gesture she knew so well ,
P: with a gesture she knen so wel ,

L: he tore off the leaflet and
P: te tame of the leaflet anol

L: ' Good-bye , Sandra , ' he said
P: " Go-bye , Sasdra , he sand

L: with a deadly finality . Watching
P: with a deadly fimality . Makdling

L: him go , unable to speak , she
P: himgo , unableto sgeak , she

L: felt that part of her was leaving
P: felt that pact of he was leavig

L: him . She couldn't hate him ...
P: him . She coulde't hate him . .

L: If only he would have con-
P: f only te would have con-

L: fided in her , given some expla-
P: tioded he , givensome exgla-

L: nation . Now there was no-
P: hation , low thase was ho-

L: thing - not even friendship .
P: fhing - not evem foienahip .

L: She went back to Philip . But
P: the vent bach to Phuilip . But

L: all she could hear were Nicholas's
P: al she coulal hea were Nichda's

L: words : ' I love you - oh , you
P: hords : f love yon -oh , you

L: know that well enough . '
P: knons that wal enough . I

L: Love . She revolted against
P: Love . She revolted agant

L: the word . Nicholas , Philip ...
P: the word . Micholas , Philip . .

L: where was happiness , or
P: Where washapine , or

L: peace of mind ? Philip put out
P: peace of mind ? Philys put out

L: a hand and grasped hers .
P: a hand and grasped hers .

L: He needed her . She would find
P: fenealeal hes . Thewrould find

L: solace in that fact at least .
P: polance in flat fact at lat .

L: She had her truth . How much had built
P: Thehad hes fruth . Atsomuch had beiclt

L: up from that first ideal , and how
P: u fromthat fiost ceal , and hows

L: little joy , or satisfaction , it had
P: Litle jory , or satisfactioniuthad

L: given her . ' I 'm sorry , darling . '
P: Guren her . msory darliy . '

L: He looked nervous . It had been
P: the faoked nervo F' had ben

L: hell lying there , knowing she was
P: hel lgiung there , knorveng she vas

L: talking to Nicholas and wondering
P: talking to Nicholas and wondiong

L: what they were saying . Sandra
P: what they were saying . Rnolra

L: said instinctively : ' I told him
P: sand unstinctively : " L forlol him

L: I knew he was responsible for
P: I fenens he was responsal fog

L: Her eyes darkened in torment . ' Are
P: feseyes dacfened intorment . Are

L: you sure that she was telling the truth ? '
P: you sure that she was tely thetrutl . '

L: ' Good heavens , darling , why on earth
P: ' God heavems , daling , why onearth

L: should she lie ? Besides , it wasn't just
P: should she hie ? Beside , it wrasultginl

L: her word . There was enough evidence ,
P: her ward . These was engh evidence ,

L: no matter how one might want to
P: Iemalter how owe might want to

L: disbelieve the facts . ' Elation
P: dins beliem the facts . Elation

L: touched him after the cold wind
P: fouched him afer the cold hind

L: of suspense . ' It will be interesting
P: of suspsemse . ' It wil be interestny,

L: to see what comes out at the inquest .
P: to se whad comes out at the ungus

L: What his story will be . I reckon
P: What his storg wiul be . I rechon

L: he 'll confine himself to the nervous
P: hel confue humself to the nervous

L: origin of her recent illness . His notes
P: oigin of hes recent ilues . His notes

L: will be truthful , but what he leaves out
P: wil be truthful , but what he leaves out

L: will matter most . ' Strange how just
P: wil mater most . ' Stoange how junr )

L: then Philip was so certain that Nicholas
P: then Philp was so constai that Nicholes

L: would never betray him . He loved
P: woclal never betray him . te loved

L: Sandra too deeply to ruin her
P: Sanaera to to deaply to ruin her

L: future happiness . Had ever circum-
P: future haypmnens . Had evescir cum-

L: stances conspired so cunningly ?
P: shances consqined so cumigflg,

L: Philip's spirits soared .
P: Phulip's pinit soared .

L: He was better ; he had made a
P: fe was betes ; he had made a

L: miraculous recovery and Sandra would
P: vuraculous recovery and Sandra would

L: soon be his wife . The Devil , he thought ,
P: seon setns wife . The Daril te Ainglt ,

L: certainly looked after his own .
P: Cartainly loked afteshis on

L: Something in Sandra's attitude struck
P: Something usanalra's afistuale struch
