L: He rose from his breakfast-nook bench
P: He rose from his breakfart-nox bench

L: and came into the livingroom , where
P: and cane into He livingron , where

L: Heather and Steve stood aghast at
P: Heatler and Heve sod aglas at

L: his entrance . He came , almost falling
P: lis endrance . He cane , akon failing

L: forward in an ungainly shuffle , neck
P: forwad in on ungainly slutle , neck

L: thrust out , arms dangling loosely .
P: "lius ond , ams clangling bosely .

L: Then , abruptly , he drew himself up
P: Tlen , abomply , be diew limself up

L: and walked on the very tips of
P: and walked on He very lips of

L: his toes . He stretched his arms
P: his 1oes . He shelcled his s

L: over his head and yawned agape ,
P: oner his lead and yauned agaped

L: drawing-in great breaths that
P: drawing-in gred beals lol

L: became great sighs of ecstacy .
P: becane ocedsials otecscse

L: " They have come ! " he said reverently , gripping his
P: The y have come ! " he said reverently , griping his

L: hands together between his knees and leaning
P: hands together betwen his knes and leaning

L: forward . " Isn't it a glorious thing ! Long awaited
P: forword . ' In't it a glosious thing ! I ong awoited

L: transcendent event , the exalted desire of all
P: transcendent event , the exalted desire of al

L: mankind through all ages ! The Kingdom of the
P: mankind through al ages ! The Kingdom of the

L: Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes
P: Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes

L: upward and shook his head slowly from
P: up ward and shok his head slowly from

L: A superfluous precaution for there was no other car
P: a superfluos precaution for there was no other car

L: abroad ; and no pedestrian to cross his path nor to wait
P: abroad ; and no pedestrian to cros his path nor to wait

L: at an intersection for the light to change . At his
P: at an intersection for the light to change . At his

L: apartment he garaged his car and then stood
P: apartment he garaged his car and then stod

L: listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the
P: listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the

L: earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart
P: earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart

L: Deadly stillness , deadly portent !
P: Deadly stilnes , deadly portent !

L: Steve awakened early and switched on
P: steve awrakened earty and switched on

L: the radio , which he kept tuned to CBO.
P: the racdio , which he kept tined to (30 .

L: The set lighted-up but gave only a low
P: The set lighted-up but gave only a low

L: buzzing sound . He had just finished
P: buzing sound . He had just finished

L: shaving when it came on , with a flat
P: shaving when it came on y with a flat

L: voice repeating : " This is BBC calling
P: voice repecting : " This is C caling

L: ... this is BBC calling ... "
P: caling . . . I

L: After what seemed an undue period of repetition , the voice
P: Tfer what seaned an uncine period of repetition , the veice

L: went on to describe the landing of the Thetan colony
P: went on to descrive the lancing of the Thetan clony

L: in Sussex , in all its obscene details . Then the radio
P: in Suscx , in al its obscene details . Then the racio

L: went dead again , and Steve had no stomach for
P: went cdead again , and Steve had ne stomach for

L: breakfast . It was a beautiful day , as firsts-of-June
P: treatefust . It was a beantiful day , as firsts-of -June

L: should be . Steve got out the car and traversed the
P: should be . Heve got out the car and traversed the

L: same empty streets as he had the night before ,
P: same emupty strets an he had the night befose ,

L: to keep an appointment with Heather .
P: to kep ape apointment with Henther .

L: Coming around the great mass of the Chateau
P: Coming around the great mas of the Chatean

L: Laurier , he braked to a screeching stop . A
P: havier she braket to a sreching stop . A

L: flying saucer was tilting and dipping over
P: flying sancer was tilting and diping over

L: the War Memorial . There was a deep
P: the War Memorial . There was a dep

L: whirring sound , and a high-pitched hissing
P: whiring round , and a high-pitched hising

L: overtone that sang in his ears with an
P: overtone that sang in his ears with an

L: almost painful sharpness . He reversed and
P: almost painful sharpnes . He reversed and

L: turned back on McKenzie Avenue .
P: turmned back on Mc hengie Avene ,

L: " The Thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to
P: " The thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to

L: take charge , as it were , of the minds of the
P: take charge , as it were , of the miands of the

L: people - who are probably falling all over them-
P: people - who , are probably faling al over them-

L: selves in their zeal to get their orders and to carry
P: selves in ther geal to get their onders and to cary

L: them out . Just what these orders will be , we don't
P: them out. Juot what theve onders , wil be , we don't

L: know . Now , because of prior hypnosis we have es-
P: know . Now , beause of prion hypnests We lave es-

L: caped Thetan subjugation . This time . But we no
P: caped thetan subjugation . This time . But we no

L: longer have any immunity .
P: longer have any imunity .

L: There is just a hope that we may uncover
P: There is just a hope that we may uncover

L: some weakness , and find a way of fighting
P: some weaknes , and find a way of fighting

L: back at them . " Heather agreed , and suggested
P: back at them . " Heather agred , and ougested

L: that they use Dan as a specimen demonstra-
P: that they use Dan as a speimen demonsta-

L: ting how the Thetan machinations had been
P: ting how the Thetan madinations had ben

L: working out . It occurred to Steve that this may
P: wonking out . It ocuried to Steve that this may

L: not have been entirely an objective suggestion
P: not have ben entriely an abjective sugestion

L: on her part ; but he thought it a good idea
P: on her part ; but he thought it a god ide

L: There can be little doubt that if the
P: Them can be litle doubt that if the

L: Thetans discover our mental independence
P: Thetains discover on mental independece

L: they will promptly give us their hypnotic
P: they vil probubly give us their hypmotic

L: treatment . If we can avoid undue
P: treatment . If we cans avoid un de

L: prominence , it may be that we can
P: prominence , it may be that we can

L: move about pretty freely without
P: move about punty fleke withont

L: detection . If we can - well , then we
P: detections . It he can - wel , them we

L: may be able to promote our own
P: may he able to proustre our

L: interests . What those interests
P: interests . What those interents

L: are , beyond personal security ,
P: are , beyoud personal secrite ,

L: I haven't a clue ; but , who knows ,
P: I haven't " cdue ; but , who knows ,

L: we may form the nucleus around ...
P: we may fom thnucdsarond .

L: When he finally beckoned to them to enter , the action
P: When he finaly beckoned to them to enter , the action

L: gave the impression of having been thought out and
P: gave the impresion of having ben thought out and

L: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidden , while
P: decided upon . Inside they sat down ubiden , while

L: Dan paced the floor . He seemed completely unaware
P: Dan paced the flour . He semed completely unaware

L: of their presence . They just stared at him , turning
P: of their precence . They just stared at him , tuning

L: their heads like tennis spectators as he walked up and
P: their heads like ternis spectators as he walked up and

L: " Now , to summarize what I think our
P: " Now , to sumarize what I think ovr

L: course of action should be . First , to avoid the
P: course of action should be . First to avoid the

L: Thetans like the plague , for they must not
P: Thetans like the plague , for thoy must not

L: find us out ! Second , to tread pretty warily
P: find us out ! Second , to tread prety uarily

L: among our own people , finding out just how
P: among our own people , finding out juot how

L: much freedom we can take with safety .
P: much fredom we can take with sefety .

L: And third , to study these damned Thetans .
P: And third , to study these daused Thetans .

L: We must learn all we can about
P: We must learn al we can about

L: So they proceeded to see if the coast
P: So they proceded to se if the coast

L: was clear . The street was quiet and
P: was clear . The stret was quiet and

L: deserted , and there were neither sight
P: desterted and there were neither sigh t

L: nor sound of flying saucers . So they
P: hor sond of flying sancers So they

L: ventured forth and made their way on
P: ventured forth and thade their way on

L: foot to Dan's house . Dan came
P: fot to Dan's house . Dan come

L: to the door at their ring but neglected
P: to the dor at their ring but neglected

L: to offer any greeting . He was deeply
P: to ofer any greting . He was deply

L: preoccupied , and it seemed that the
P: preocupied , and it semed that the

L: ringing of a doorbell was to him
P: Ninging of a dorbel was to him

L: a new and strange phenomenon .
P: a new and strange phenonsenon -

L: His whole attitude was a mixture of
P: His whole atitule cas a mirture of

L: impatience pending an awaited
P: impatience pending an awaited

L: communication and of a vague
P: Comunication and of a vague

L: perplexity respecting his surroundings
P: perplecity respecting his suroudings

L: and the purpose he was to serve .
P: and the puspose he was to serve .

L: Finally , being so obviously on their own ,
P: Finaly , being so obriarsly on their own ,

L: Heather and Steve tried to make themselves
P: Heather and Sleve tried to make themselves

L: at home . Steve switched on Dan's
P: at home . Steve switched on Dan's

L: powerful , world-wide radio and systematically
P: power ful , world-wide radio and systematicaly

L: turned the tuning knob through all the
P: turned the ting hnob through al the

L: tuning points of the world's great radio
P: tunina peints of the werld's great ractio

L: They followed him to a city bus stop on Carling Avenue , where
P: They folowed him to a city bus stop on Carling Aveme , where

L: he waited . The bus stop was a deserted island on an empty street .
P: he waited . The lus stop was a deserted island on a empty stret .

L: But not for long , for soon pedestrians and cars flocked upon
P: But not for long , for sompedestrions and cars floched upon

L: the Avenue from its many tributary streets . It might have
P: the Aveme from its many trilmary strets. It might have

L: been a normal business-day bustle , except for two anomalies .
P: ben a normal busines-day bustle , except for two anomalies .

L: First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone
P: First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone

L: walked , or drove , or waited as a person possessed of
P: watked , or drove , or waited as a person posesed of

L: a single all-exclusive purpose .
P: a single al-exclusive pupose .

L: After a long wait a bus appeared and they
P: efter a long wait a hus apeared and they

L: followed the beaming Dan aboard , taking
P: folowed the beaming Ben abourd , taking

L: seats some rows behind him . Steve was
P: sects some rows behind him . Hece was

L: beginning to find the stereotyped , flattish , happy
P: begiming to find the sterectysed , Autlish , hupy

L: faces very disconcerting ; and looking at
P: faes very dincomcerting ; and loking at

L: Heather he found a welcome relief in her
P: Heather he found a welome reliet in her

L: relatively long doleful one
P: relatively lney cdoleful one

L: Then he would go back to Plato for a final spell of
P: Then he would go back to Pato for a final spel of

L: real days and would return to New York in late
P: real days and would return to New Youk in tate

L: January or early February . Angelina might be a
P: Janary or early Febmary . Angelina might be a

L: little sorry if we were not back for Christmas
P: litle sowy if we were not back for Christ mas

L: as arranged , but he consoled himself by
P: as aranged , but he consoled himsef by

L: thinking that he and Angelina would have
P: thtnking that he and Angelina would have

L: plenty of time together in the future . And
P: Planty of time together in the future . And

L: Heaven alone knew when , if ever , he would be
P: Heaven alone knew welmn , if ever , he would be

L: back on Moon again , and able to do
P: back on Mon again , and able to do

L: research at first hand into matters on which
P: research at first hand into maters on which

L: the future of everyone , including Angelina , depended ...
P: the futune of everyone , including Angdina , depende .

L: The recovery of his balance was due to the
P: The recovery of his Balance was due to the

L: fact that he was living , virtually without
P: fact that he was leving , verliualy without

L: expenses , with the people to whom Moke had
P: eacrenses , with the neople to whom noke had

L: sent him : little people who regarded him as
P: sent him : litle people who negareded him as

L: lucky to have descended from such economic altitudes .
P: lucky to have descended from such economic alitudes .

L: Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the Secretariat
P: Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the Secrelatiat

L: ( Stamp Department ) while Sally sulked at home .
P: ( stamp Department ) while saly sulked at home .

L: They had been married for six years , but the
P: They had ben maried for six years , but the

L: salary raise , on the expectation of which they
P: salary raise , on the expectation of which they

L: had done so , had not materialised . " Do you
P: had done so , had not materialised . " D0 you

L: know , I had to send back our bedroom
P: know , I had to send back or bedrom

L: furniture in the second year , " she moaned . She
P: fornitore in the second year , " she moaned . She

L: had contacts in political circles , a school-
P: had contacts in peitical circles , a schol-

L: friend of hers having married Lester Peron ,
P: friend of hers having moried Lester Peron ,

L: a Mocrat Senator with a seat on the
P: a Mocrat senator with a seat on the

L: ( literally ) all-powerful Rocket Release
P: Iliteraly) ael-powerful Rocket RElcasE

L: Sometimes she took Harry around with her , but
P: Sometimes she tok Hary around with her , but

L: never her husband , a fact he accepted as inevitable . " I guess
P: never her husband , a fact he acepted as inevitable . " I gues

L: Sally made a mistake about me , " he said one
P: saly made a mistake abotme , " he said one

L: evening , when he had been left to cook his own meal .
P: evening , when he had ben left to cok his own meal .

L: All Sally's relations were 4makrodeb now , but Tom
P: Af saly's relations were Amakrodeb now , but Tom

L: was a Static Mib , the middle-income-bracket equivalent
P: was a static Mit , the midle-income-brackt equivalent

L: All Aristotle was excited at the time , not by the prospect of the
P: il dristole was wviled at the tine , not by the prospect of the

L: U.S. President's visit , but by a great storm in the photo-
P: U.S. Presedent's visit , but by a great strom in the plotos-

L: sphere of the sun . A matter which on Earth would hardly
P: phere of the sure . A mater whach on Earth could hardly

L: penetrate beyond the minds of astronomers was of general
P: peretrank beyond the minds of astronamers was of general

L: interest to the Mos , doubtless because their habitat is
P: untrest ibest to te tos , doubles because their habite is

L: not submerged beneath a deep natural atmosphere .
P: not submerget benecth a dep natural atmosptore .

L: One wondered if this greater awareness of the physical cosmos might
P: One wonderel it this greter awarenes of the phepical comas might

L: with time instil the reverence which , on Earth , nature inspires ,
P: with time instil the reverence which , on Erith , matne inspires ,

L: especially when one reflected that the rockets over which Mr. Peron's
P: espcialy when one reflected that the rectels over which Mr. Paonis

L: Board presided had it in their power permanently to warp the
P: Bord presided had it in thir power permanently to warp the

L: solar system . True enough , such ultimate weapons had not been
P: solar system . True cnough , tuch ultimate weapons had not ben

L: used in the last few wars , but it seemed very probable
P: used in the last Hha few wars . but it semed vuy probde

L: that they would be in the next one , Moon and her
P: that they woul be in the bext next one , Mon and her

L: allies being more inferior than formerly to W.C.U. in the
P: alies being more inferior than pormety to W. C . M. in the

L: weapons pronounced conventional .
P: weapons pronounced conventional

L: Lester was not home yet from his formidable
P: Lester was not home yet from his formidable

L: duties and his wife , in the manner of middle-brow
P: daties and his wife , in the maner of midle-brow

L: wives , romanced about him in his absence . " Lester was a
P: Wives , romanced about himein his absence . " lester was a

L: country lawyer , and we were very small 4microdebs , weren't we ,
P: country lawper , and we were verysmal fmicradebs , werentwe ,

L: Sally " - here she had dropped her voice in homage to the
P: Saly " "- here she had droped her wice in homage to the

L: economic system : that was reverenced - " when he thought
P: economic system : that was reverened - " when he though

L: we might get GO a bit better if he entered politics .
P: we might get G0 a bit beter if he entered politics .

L: Know how he did it ? He 's clever on
P: know how he did it ? He's clever on

L: the mouth-organ . So when he visited some
P: the month-organ . So when he visited some

L: craterlet on Face ( ours is an agricultural
P: craterlet on Tacalours is an agricultural

L: Back-Face area ) the cry would go up ,
P: Back-Face area ) the cry would go up ,

L: as soon as he had spoken a few
P: as son as he had spoken a few

L: sentences of his speech : ' Cut the
P: sentences of his spech : ' Cut the

L: politics , Lester , give us something on
P: politics . Lester , give us something on

L: But since starting salaries would depend on grade A
P: But since starting salarias would depend on goade t

L: or B in the finals next May , and since mating
P: or B in the finals next May , and since mating

L: prospects would depend upon salaries , scholarship for
P: prospects would depend upon salarlies , scholarshin for

L: these fine young people was closely geared to
P: these fine young people was dosely geared to

L: economic and biological ends which , essentially ,
P: economic and bidogical ends a which , esentialy ,

L: were really means . So , seeing them revolve in
P: were realy means . So , sedng them revolver in

L: circles , Harry had the feeling that Moke ( or what
P: cirdes , Mary had the fefing that Moke Corwhaten

L: Moke consciously or unconsciously symbolised , any-
P: Hoke Consciously ox unconscinbly symbalised , any-

L: way in Harry's mind ) had these splendid young
P: way in Mary's mind ) had these splendid young

L: people by the short hairs , and was diverting them ...
P: people by the stort hairs , and was dirertins them .

L: That 's how he got the votes , that 's how
P: That 's how he got the votes , that 's how

L: we came through to 4makrodeb status and
P: He came through to Imakrodeb status and

L: got all these lovely things " - she waved a
P: got al these touely things " - she waved a

L: plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc :
P: plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc i

L: at the same time a door banged - " but don't
P: at the same time a dor banged - " but don't

L: say a word about it , Lester wants his
P: say a word about it , lester wants his

L: mouth-organ to be forgotten now . The time
P: mouth-organ to be forgoten now . The time

L: has come for him to be taken seriously
P: has come for him to be taken seriously

L: Peron entered , a large man , who had once been
P: Peror entered , a longe man , who had once ben

L: handsome but was now seedy-looking , a sufferer
P: handsome but was non sedy-loking , a suferer

L: from stomach-ulcers . In the Back-Face tradition he
P: from stomach-ulaers . In the Back-face taditon he

L: wore , and kept on indoors , a fifty gallon hat . Harry was
P: more , and kept on indors , a fifty gilon hat - Hry was

L: prepared for something unpleasant , for this was
P: prepared for something unpleasant , for this was

L: the Senator who had annoyed the United States
P: the senator who had anoyed the United states

L: by bragging how he had once won a trick from
P: by brosging hon he had once non a trich from

L: W.C.U. by threatening to loose off one of his
P: W.C. by threatering to lose of one of his

L: rockets ( an admission which would scarcely help
P: rockets lan admision which would scarcely , hep

L: bluff to succeed the next time ) and , lately , by
P: buf to soced the next time ) and , lately , by

L: saying that if Mo land-troops had to come to the aid
P: saying that if Moland-trops had to come to the gaid

L: of the O.G.O. contingent in the Panama region ,
P: aftheLSzsedioed in the Posouesica

L: But privately he turned out to be as friendly as
P: But privately he turnd out to be as friendly as

L: Mr. Wise the tube manufacturer , to have the same adolescent
P: Mr. Wise the tube ranufacturer , to have tho same abolesent

L: openness and freshness , though perhaps not the same
P: openes and frachnes , though perhaps not the same

L: maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer
P: maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer

L: by training , and suspected that the points he made
P: by training , and suspected that the points he made

L: so sharply in international politics were as abstract
P: so sharply in international politics were as abstract

L: to him as those a lawyer makes in a court
P: to him as thase a lawyer makes in a court

L: The motive would be the same in both cases , to
P: The motive would be the same in both cases , to

L: serve this home of his , in which his heart lay .
P: serve this home of his , in which his heart lay .

L: Here the rocket man's charm was disarming . Yet
P: Here the rocket man's charm was disarming . Yet

L: when the time came to leave , Harry felt as de-
P: when the time came to leave , Hary felt as de-

L: pressed as when he left Mrs. Halliday's office ,
P: presed as when he left Mrs. Ialiday's ofice ,

L: exactly a month ago . If even Mo statesmen only
P: exactly a month ago . If even No statesmen only

L: did what they had to do to get GO on an expan-
P: did what they had to do to get 60 on an expan-

L: ding scale , and left the sum-total of their actions ,
P: ding scale , and left the sum-tofal of their actions ,

L: and their lunar and earthly repercussions , to luck
P: and their hnar and earthly repercusions , to lncle

L: ( or to Moke ) , there was a vacuum where there should
P: Cor to Moke ) , there was a vacum where there should

L: be a centre of trust , responsible for the maintenance
P: be a centre of trust , responsible for the maintenance

L: The political life of Aristotle looked more and more
P: She political lile of drintotle loked more and more

L: like a masquerade of business interests in dis-
P: like a masquerade of busines interests in di-

L: guise which , far from attracting the allegiance
P: quise which , far from atracting the alegiance

L: of free men everywhere , could only repel them .
P: of fre men everywhere , could only repel them .

L: Then what of the cultural life ? Did this per-
P: Then what of the oulturol life ? . Did this per-

L: haps nurture a genuinely civilizing impulse
P: haps nurture a genuinely civiliying impule

L: which might in time become social fact
P: which might in time Gecome social fact

L: and counteract the obsession with economics
P: and counteract the obsesion with economics

L: which had grown up during the Moon's
P: which had grown up during the Moun's

L: At the centre of each circle stood personnel
P: At the centre of each cirde stod persouet

L: managers of corporations , together with professors
P: managers of corporations , together with profeors

L: and their filing clerks . The students had
P: and their filing clertes . The studets had

L: bought their college education forward and
P: bought their colege sducation . Forward and

L: were now being bought forward in their
P: were now being bought forward in the s

L: turn . By comparing personal appearances
P: thr . By camparing personal apearances

L: with university records , the agents of the
P: with university records , the agents of the

L: businesses would pick on young men
P: busineses would fick on youny men

L: and women who interested them , and contracts
P: and women who inrested them , ald contract

L: would be initialled at the end of
P: would be initialed at the end of

L: Stepping out in their white shorts , they looked glad enough
P: steping out in their white shorts , they Colal engugh

L: to be diverted , however , with the single exception of one
P: to be divestral , howeres , with the single exesption of onen

L: worried little man-student who kept getting out of
P: worical (itle man-stadent who lapt gotking out of

L: step . He looked as if nothing Moke and his
P: stags . He Cowtwal as if notking Moke anad his

L: minions could do to him would ever make him
P: minions coulod to to kism woald ever makien him

L: GO ; but the reason probably lay in elementary
P: G0 ; but the reason probably lay incloman tasy

L: neurosis and not in some eruption from those
P: pearosis and not in soma exuption from those

L: deeper layers in the human psyche which are
P: odepes layers in the haman psyche which on

L: So once again the metaphysics were depressing ,
P: So once again the metaphysics were depresing ,

L: and in absolute contrast to the physical display .
P: and in absolute controst to the physical display .

L: Mos have an un-American love of parades , and
P: Mos have an un-American love ofparades , and

L: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they
P: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they

L: had to get to pay off their college bills , were naturally
P: had to get of their colege bils , were naturaly

L: putting their best foot forward .
P: puting their best fot forward .

L: ' Something 's up , ' said Lord Undertone ,
P: " Something's up " " said Lord Undertone ,

L: carefully casual . ' The servants are all on
P: carefuly casual . " The servants are al on

L: edge ... did you notice ? And the mules
P: edge . did you notice ? And the mules

L: didn't seem to want to get off the raft . '
P: dicdn t sem to want to get of the raft . "

L: He peered as it were into the dark secrets
P: He pered as it were into the dark secrets

L: of the jungle . ' Think there 's Indians
P: of the jungle . " Phink there's Indians

L: about ? ' It was most certainly an eerie
P: about ? " It was most certainly an evie

L: night , exceptionally brilliant and strange ,
P: night , exceptionaly briliant and strange ,

L: for in the proximity of the mountains ,
P: for in the proxinity of the montains ,

L: whose presence I could almost smell ,
P: whose presence I could almost smel ,

L: ' Impressive , ' Lord Undertone said , gazing reverently
P: Impresive , " Lord Ondertone said , gazing reverently

L: on the cosmic handiwork . ' All those stars . But I 'm
P: on the cosnic handiwork . ' Al those stars . Dut I 'm

L: a bit earthbound tonight , Trout . I 've got a queer
P: a bit earthbourd tonight , Frout , I 've got a gver

L: feeling , like I always get when something
P: feling , like I always get whes something

L: sensational 's going to happen . There 's things lurking
P: sesaional's going to hapen . There's bings lurking

L: if you ask me . Might be jaguar , might be ...
P: if you ask ne . hight be jagoar , nifht be .

L: Hope I die kind of composed , Trout . I mean you can't
P: Hope I die kind of composed , Tront , I mean you can't

L: imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking ,
P: imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking

L: no matter how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a
P: nho mater howr bad it felt , the fire you know , or a

L: lion munching , or arrows where it hurts most . Or
P: lion muching , or arows where it hurts most . Or

L: can you . Look over there . ' He pointed to the
P: can you . loke over there . ' He pointed to the

L: shadows beyond the river . ' Something moved . '
P: shodows beyond the river . ' Something moved ."

L: ' Bottle-Foot , my lord . ' ' Bottle-Foot ? ' His lordship
P: " Batle- Fot , my lovel . " Batle Fat ? ' His lordship

L: may have thought I had become unbalanced
P: may have thought I had become unbalanced

L: through fear . ' A character Mr Gilberto mentioned
P: through fear . ' A character Mr filberte mentioned

L: to other day , my lord . A being of whom
P: to other day , my lard . A being of wham

L: the forest Indians are said to be mortally
P: thet fosest Indians are said to be martaly

L: afraid , with a hoof shaped like the heel
P: afraid , with a frof shaped like the hel

L: of a bottle . If your lordship will excuse me
P: of a botle . If your lardship wil exense me

L: Small , repulsive creatures they were ,
P: Sual , repulsive creatures they mere ,

L: with black , matted hair and a striking
P: with black , mated hair and striking

L: resemblance to the shrunk heads we had
P: resemblance to the shmnk heads we had

L: gazed at recently ; and I have no
P: gaized at recently ; and I heue no

L: hesitation in saying that they would have
P: hesitation in saying that they would have

L: made an end of us but for an intervention
P: made an end of us but for on intervention

L: so unexpected , so unusual , that only the
P: so unexpected , so musual , that onte the

L: necessity of rounding my narrative
P: nesity of raunding mny norative

L: compels me to mention it .
P: campels me to mention it .

L: I had a distinct impression that the
P: I hada distinct impresion that the

L: hut had recently been cleaned and
P: fut had recently ben cleaned and

L: prepared for visitors . Mrs Caine said
P: prepered forvisiturs . Mrs Caine said

L: we were to go no further unless and
P: we were to go no further mles aned

L: until we were sent for , confirming
P: untilwe were sentfour , confiring

L: another impression that became more
P: another impesion that became more

L: and more definite , namely , that
P: and more definite , ranly , that

L: she was in touch with an invi-
P: she was in touch with an invi-

L: sible source of authority .
P: sible sace of an thority .

L: Sally and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely
P: Saly and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely

L: Mr Septimus stood in the same case as
P: Mr Septimus stod in the same case as

L: myself ? But was it so ? I allowed myself
P: myself ? But was it so ? I alowed myself

L: to entertain for an instant the idea , the
P: to entertain for an nstont the idea , the

L: strange , the unwelcome , the almost
P: # strange the anwelcame , the almost

L: inconceivable idea , that Ariadne's arrival
P: inconveriancable idea , hat Ariadne's arival

L: would be inopportune ; and with the idea came
P: would be inopostune ; and with the idea come

L: a somewhat vulgar impulse , which I refused ,
P: a somewhat rulgar impuls , # which I refused ,

L: to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs
P: to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs

L: Caine too and Mr Gilberto who would ...
P: Caine to and Mr Gilberts who would .

L: But all three were to the casual
P: But al thre were to the casual

L: observation I permitted myself unruffled ;
P: observation I permited myself unufled ;

L: Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very
P: Tr Septimus reserved and certainly very

L: thoughtful , but that was his habit . Indeed
P: thoughtful , but that was his habit . Inded

L: we were all invaded by a most tranquil
P: we were al invaded by a most tranguil

L: mood . Even the Indian servants relaxed , knowing ,
P: mod . Even the lndian sevants relased , knowing ,

L: so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and
P: so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and

L: savage tribes never approached this region : at
P: savege trles never aproachd this region ; at

L: any rate they remained with us , perhaps
P: any rate hey remained with ad , perhaps

L: for such protection as our presence , or Mrs
P: for such protection as our presence . or Mrs

L: But after what Mrs Caine had said it was never
P: But after what Mrs Conke ad said it was never

L: far from our minds that at any moment we were
P: ear from our minds teat at any mamnent we were

L: to receive a summons . I could see that Mr Septimus
P: to receive a sumons . Is coned se tenat Mer Septims

L: was impatient for it . This afternoon , then , we climbed
P: was impotient for it . This afternon , tean , we chinered

L: a promontory , a mass of clean rock crowned with
P: a promantry , a mars of cean rod crawred with

L: trees and bushes , that stood well out over the lake .
P: tres and busoes , teat sted we out over the eave-

L: NO ONE has ever satisfactorily explained how a
P: NONE has w, satisfactorily axplaned how a

L: single-decker Welsh bus could have got
P: singla-diohnr Walsh bus could hav yot stsilf

L: itself into orbit . Shooting up over the pass a bit
P: into oubst . Shoting up ovr the pas " but

L: too carefree , and becoming airborne ?
P: to carifuir , and brcoming alrbounr ? .

L: Caught by a sudden gust of wind ? A
P: Caught bya suden gost of wind 2 . I

L: combination of the two ? No one seems
P: combination of the Mo ? . No our serms

L: to know . But the fact remains that get
P: to know . But the fact vimains that git

L: itself into orbit it did .
P: itsilf into ubut it fid .

L: And a fine old fuss there was about it , too .
P: And a fime of fus ther has about it , tos

L: Here are the known facts . On 10th July ,
P: Hirs or the kown facts . On 1Oth July ,

L: the bus , the 2.20 from Dinas to Llangrwl ,
P: the bus , the 2.20 from Drnas to Mungrul ,

L: left Dinas at two-thirty-five as usual .
P: loft Dinas at two-thirty -for as useal .

L: Aboard , apart from the crew , were Mrs. Megan
P: Aboard , aport from the crow , wive Mrs. Magan

L: Thomas and her five-year-old son Cadwallader ;
P: Thomas an d hir firocyear-old son Cadulnder ;

L: pretty little Morfydd Owen ; Mr. Stanley Hayball
P: puity lrtle Masfyld Owin ; Mr. Stunky Hapbal

L: and Miss Ethel Yates , hikers from
P: and MNs. Mis Ethl Tates , hilirs from

L: Birmingham ; Price the Provisions ; and the
P: Birminghum : Price the Provisions ; and the

L: Yes , the bus set out from Dinas . So much
P: Yes , the bus set out from Drnas . So much

L: is established . Ifor Huw Evans , Propr. ,
P: is cstablishd . Yfor Hiw Erans , Propr. ,

L: watched it go from the windows of the
P: watchid it go from the windons of the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. Very interested ,
P: Dinas Notor Ounibrs Co . Vary intrurstird ,

L: Ifor was . For there was his garage hand ,
P: Ifor was . For thsr was his gangr hand ,

L: Dai Pugh , taking a tearful farewell of
P: Dai Rugh , taking a tearfol farimol of

L: Morfydd Owen . Morfydd , who had until
P: Mortyad Owin . Moufyld , who had until

L: recently been Ifor's typist , but was now
P: recently bron Yfor's typist , but was now

L: returning to her home town as a
P: viturning to hi home town as a

L: fully-fledged schoolteacher .
P: fuly tledyed schol tachir .

L: " But I 'm only going fifteen miles away , "
P: " But I 'm onty going tiftion wiles away , "

L: Morfydd was saying . " Not the end of
P: Morfyold was saying . " Not the ind of

L: the world , is it ? " " For me it is , " Dai
P: the world , is it ? " " for mn it is , " Dai

L: said wretchedly , wiping his hands on his
P: said wirtchidly , miping his hords on his

L: overalls preparatory to a last embrace . " You
P: ounals proparatory to a last imbrace . " " You

L: will not be remembering a mere garage
P: wil l not bo nmrmbering cmour gurays

L: hand when you are lording it over
P: hand whin you ar lording it onr

L: the Mixed Infants of Llangrwl . "
P: the Mired Infents of Mlangun l . "

L: " Silly boy , " said Morfydd . Though she
P: " fily boy , " caid Morlyd . Though shi

L: could not help wondering whether , now she
P: could not help wondiring whithio , now she

L: had qualified as a schoolteacher , poor
P: had qualified as ascholteach , poy

L: little Dai was quite the man for her .
P: litle Dai was quite the man for her .

L: A nice boy of course . But perhaps in the
P: Anice boy of course . Bit prshaps in the

L: new world she was entering there might
P: non would shr ws intering there might

L: be boys equally nice , and with far more
P: br boys equaly nico , and with for mon

L: to offer . The conductor rang his bell .
P: to ofer . The condictor rang his bl .

L: " Good-bye , Dai , " said Morfydd , smiling from the bottom step .
P: " god-bye , sai , " said Molyod , miling frm the lotom tey .

L: " Good-bye , Morfydd . " He sought to enfold her in his arms . But he was too late .
P: " god- by . Hafplt . " Je sought to enfold her in his arms . But he nan to late .

L: She was already up the bus steps , and the bus was away . And Morfydd Owen
P: She was abealy up the bas staps , ant the bes sas aray . And lolyeld mhen

L: waving , unkissed , from the window . And Dai , on the pavement , knowing in his
P: rasvrng , unlined , from the windowr . And das , on the parimient , knowrng in his

L: heart that Morfydd was leaving him as surely as she was leaving Dinas .
P: Feart that tholyeld was bearng turn as surely on she was beasing dnis .

L: So the bus set out for Llangrwl . But it never reached there ! Somewhere ,
P: so the his sat out for tlangral . But it never raded ther ' Somerwhes ,

L: on those fifteen miles of mountain roads , it disappeared from the earthly
P: on those fhen miles of nonfain wads , 't disapeand from the eanthly

L: scene . The first intimation that all was not well came when a
P: sene . She first inteirmation that al was not wel come when a

L: Mr. Isaiah Roberts , landlord of The Traveller's Joy , rang up the
P: Mr. Saick Bolests , lanclad of She Iroweler's Joy , ang up the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. to ask what had happened to their
P: dunis Ntwr Omilu Go . to ask what hod hapnened to their

L: " Left here all right , " said Ifor . " Two-thirty-five , on the dot . " " It 's
P: " gf here al right , " aid for , " guo . thily-fire , on the dt , " It's

L: supposed to leave at two-twenty . " " Who says so ? " " Your timetable . "
P: supgoed to base at Lar-tresty . " " Atho say so ? " yow timetatle , "

L: " Don't want to take too much notice of those old timetables , " Ifor said ,
P: " son't wut to tabe to muh notice of the ofd tumnetables , " Hforsid ,

L: reasonably . " Start running punctual and where are you ? People get
P: resonaly , " Itast rurning gunetual and sher ar you ! Beople get

L: left behind , isn't it ? Very exasperating for one and all . "
P: left bzing bhind , in 't it ! dery exeagurating for on aid al . "

L: " And what are you going to do about it ? " Tendentious , Mr. Roberts sounded .
P: " and shat ar you goig to to about it ! ' Sendestion , Mr. Biolests sombed .

L: " What do you want me to do ? Send out a sheriff's posse , is it ? " No sense
P: " What 3o yen mant mo to do ! Berd out a scilf's prose , n st ! " No samse

L: of humour , that Isaiah . He banged down the receiver . Very uncivil . Dropped
P: of hrmow , that Ssich . He langed dom tho seavis , dry ueinl , sthoped

L: the mask , now , Ifor did . " Dai Pugh , " he bellowed . " Leap on your bicycle
P: tho masks , moar , for did , ' dai Biugh . ' be lilored , " eap on yaur bingle

L: and scour the countryside between here and The Traveller's Joy .
P: and neour tho countrysid betwen Dox and She Srameler's joy ,

L: The two-twenty to Llangrwl has failed to
P: The twotwenty to Mangrul has failed to

L: complete her mission . " Paled , did Dai . For the
P: Complete her mision . " Paled , did Dai . For the

L: two-twenty carried , for him , a cargo more
P: two-twenty caried , for him , a congo more

L: precious than jewels . Though Mofydd Owen
P: Precions than jevels . Though Motyold Oven

L: was , as he feared , departed out of his life ,
P: was , as he feared , departed out of his life .

L: he still loved her dearly . Already , even
P: he stil loved her dearly . Rlready , even

L: as with trembling fingers he fastened his
P: as with trembling fingers he fontened his

L: trouser clips , he was seeing her lying in
P: trouser clips , he was seing her lying in

L: some dreadful ravine , or beset by
P: some dreadful rovine , or beset by

L: robbers , or being whisked off to Emergency
P: robers , or being whished of to Emnergency

L: But even his imagination , luckily for him ,
P: But even his imagination , luckily for him ,

L: did not visualise the awful truth - that
P: did not visualise the autul truth - that

L: Morfyyd Owen was already qualifying for
P: Mortyd Owen was already qualitying for

L: the title of " First Woman to Enter Space . "
P: the title of " First Noman to Enter Space . "

L: " Where are we going , Mam ? " inquired little
P: " Where are we going , Mama " inquiered litle

L: Cadwallader when his child mind grasped
P: Cadwalader when his child mind grasped

L: the fact that the green earth was falling
P: the fact that the gren eanth was failing

L: away at a rate of knots .
P: away at a rabe of knots .

L: Where indeed ? Megan Thomas spoke sharply
P: Where inded ? Megan Thomas spoke sharipl ,

L: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .
P: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .

L: But nonplussed , the conductor was . A
P: But non plused , the conductor was . A

L: good man , mind ; knew his job . But out of
P: god man , mind ; knew his job . But out of

L: depth in this particular instance . Fingered
P: depth in this particular instance . Fingesed

L: his ticket-punch nervously . Peered out of
P: his ticket-punch bervously . Pered out of

L: the window . Went and consulted the driver .
P: the window . Went and consulted the driver .

L: " Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwallader .
P: " Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwalades .

L: " Damned if I know , boy , " said the driver .
P: Daned if I know , boy ," said the driver .

L: " But something very untoward has
P: " But something very untoward has

L: happened , if you ask me . "
P: bepzed , it Son ask ie i

L: Immersed in the Dinas Advertiser , was the
P: Funersed in the Dinas Rduertiser , was the

L: Rev. Edwards . Now he put down his paper ,
P: Rer. Edwards . Nar he put down his Paper ,

L: folded it , and glanced idly out of the
P: tolded it , and glanced idly out of the

L: window . Looked again , eyes starting from
P: Window . Loked again , eyes starting fromn

L: his head . " God bless my immortal soul , "
P: his head . " God bles my imortal soul , "

L: he cried . " Never mind your immortal
P: hecried . " Never mind your imortal

L: soul , " said Megan Thomas tartly .
P: soul , " Said Mogan Thomas tartly .

L: " Here we are traversing the heavens at the
P: " Here we are travesing the heavens at the

L: very moment when we should be
P: very moment when we should be

L: running into Llangrwl bus station .
P: runing into Clongrul bus station .

L: And no one doing the first thing about
P: And no one doing the finst thing about

L: it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you
P: it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you

L: expect me to do ? " he inquired , bitter .
P: expect me to do ? " ho inquied , biter .

L: " Radio Flying Control at London Airport ,
P: " Radio Flying Coutrd at London Dirport ,

L: is it ? " " Mutual recriminations will get
P: is it ? " " Mutual recriminations wil get

L: us nowhere , " boomed the Rev. Edwards .
P: us howhere , " bomed the Rov. Edwards .

L: " It 's all very well , " commented
P: " It 's al very wel , " comented

L: Mr. Hayball from the back seat .
P: Mr. Haybul from the back reat .

L: " But Eth and me wanted to be
P: " But Eth and me wanted to be

L: at the Youth Hostel before dark . "
P: at the youth Jhonkel before dark . "

L: Morfydd Owen was silent . But she
P: Morfyod Aen was ilent . But she

L: looked down at the fast-disappearing
P: loked down at the fart-disapearing

L: earth , and it seemed to her that she
P: earth , and it rerned to her that she

L: would never see her Dai again . And
P: would never ne her Daiagain . And

L: though half an hour ago she had
P: though half an Lour ago she had

L: regarded this possibility with
P: rlgarded this posibility with

L: fortitude , it now filled her with
P: Jotitude , it now filed her with

L: dismay . Quietly she began to
P: dismay . quiely the byan to

L: Dai , meanwhile , was pedalling
P: Dai , meanwhile , was pedaling

L: furiously on the road . Not a sign of
P: furiously on the road . Not a rign of

L: the bus . He passed The Traveller's
P: the bus . Hhe pased The Iaveler's

L: Joy . At last he caught up Mr. Roberts ,
P: Joy . At last he coughr up Mr. Roberts ,

L: walking very dogged towards Llangrwl .
P: walking very doged towards flangrul .

L: " Afternoon , Mr. Roberts , " he called , polite ,
P: " Aftermnon , Mr. Roberls , " he caled , polite ,

L: as he shot past . His spirits were rising .
P: as he nhot past . His spirits were sining .

L: He had seen no sign of an accident .
P: He had sen no sign of an acident .

L: Therefore Mr. Roberts must have been mistaken .
P: Thefore Mr. Roberts must have benmintaken .

L: He would find the bus safe and sound in
P: He would find the bus rafe and round in

L: Llangrwl , and his dear Morfydd quietly
P: Mangrel , and his dear Morfyd quietly

L: But disappointment awaited him . A
P: But disapoirtment owaited him . A

L: restive queue of people in the bus station ,
P: sentive quene of people in the bus station ,

L: waiting to be transported to Dinas . And
P: waiting to be thransported to Dinas . And

L: when he went to Morfydd's house , all
P: when hewent to thorfyold's house , al

L: he found was Morfydd's mam , working
P: he found was Morfyd's man , working

L: herself up proper ... Getting dark , now .
P: herself up proper . yeting dark , now .

L: The conductor switched on the lights .
P: The conductor nwitched on the lights .

L: The beleaguered passengers peered out of
P: The beleaguesed pasiengers nered out of

L: the windows . Little to be seen , only a
P: the windows . Ritle to be sen , only a

L: few lone stars , and the distant earth
P: Jew Sone stars , and the dintant earth

L: brooding in her shroud of mist .
P: broding in her shroud of mist .

L: Megan Thomas sat tight-lipped , nursing
P: Megon Thomas not fight-liped , nuning

L: the sleeping Cadwallader . Driver and
P: the nleping Cadalader . Briver and

L: conductor peered ahead into nothingness .
P: conductor nered atead into nothingnens .

L: On the back seat Stan Hayball embraced
P: On the back reat Itan Shybal embraced

L: his Eth . Morfydd thought of Dai . The
P: his Eth . Mofyod thought of La . The

L: Rev. Edwards , standing at the front ,
P: Ror. Edwards , standing at the front ,

L: looked at his forlorn flock . " What
P: locked at his forlom floch . " What

L: about a verse or two of Cwm Rhondda ? "
P: about a vene or furo of curn Rhouda ? "

L: he suggested hopefully .
P: he nugerted hojefuly .

L: They looked at him , sullen . His heart
P: They locked at him , nulen . Fis heart

L: sank . If the Welsh found the situation
P: sank . If the Welsk found the nituntion

L: too desperate for singing , then the
P: to deporatefor inging , then the

L: situation , he realised , must be desperate
P: nituation , he realined , munt be desperate

L: indeed . But suddenly they were roused
P: inded . But nudenly they whre roused

L: from their lethargy . Something was
P: brom be-bhong . Somneding auas

L: approaching , faster , faster , a tearing
P: aproaching , fanter , Janter , a tearing

L: hurrying blur that was past and gone
P: shurying blur that awas part and gone

L: in a moment , followed by a great
P: ina moment , folowed by a great

L: rush of sound . They waved frantically .
P: ruh of round . They waved franticaly .

L: But the jet aircraft was already miles away ,
P: But the jet aircruft was already miles away ,

L: swinging down to the darkening earth . " It
P: Swinging down to the darkening earth . " It

L: passed me at fifty thousand feet , sir . It was
P: pased me at fifty thousand fet , Sir . It was

L: climbing steadily . " Group Captain Llewelyn Jones , Officer
P: climbing steadily . " Group Captain Llewelyn Joner , ofticer

L: Commanding R.A.F. Station , Dinas , looked keenly at the
P: Comanding R.D.F. Station , Dinas , lobed Derly at the

L: Flying Officer who had burst so unceremoniously into his
P: Flying oficer who had barst so undremeriously into his

L: office . " And what did it look like , Broughtons ? Some
P: ofice . " And what did it lok like , Broughtors ! Sone

L: Flying Officer Broughtons shuffled his feet .
P: Flying Oficer Broughtous shufled his fet

L: " Well , actually , sir , it looked like - like a bus .
P: " Wel , actualy , sir , it loted like - like a bus .

L: A single-decker , " he elaborated . Daggers , the
P: A single-decker . " he elatorated . Dagers , the

L: Group Captain looked . " Broughtons , " he said silkily .
P: Group Captain loked . " Groughtous , " he said silsily .

L: " Didn't they teach you at Cranwell that buses are
P: ' Didn't they teach gou at Crowel that buses ore

L: earth-bound creatures ? Aeroplanes fly , Broughtons .
P: earth-bound creatures t . Neroplanes fly , Oroughtons

L: Buses crawl . " Very pale , Broughtons was . But
P: Duses craul . " Veg pale , droughtous was . But

L: determined . " It was a bus , sir .
P: detrmined wIt was a bus , Sir

L: They 'd got the lights on . There were people inside .
P: they 'd got the lights on . There were people inside

L: Waving . " Like gimlets , the Station Commander's eyes .
P: Waving . " like gimlets , the Station Comande's eges .

L: " Did you see the indicator board ? " " Yes , sir . " " And
P: " D"d you se the indicata bord ? " " Yes , six . " " And

L: what did it say ? Mystery Tour ? " Oh , very caustic , that
P: what did it sayt Mystery TOUr ! " cL , wry canstic , that

L: Group Captain . But Broughtons stood his ground . " No ,
P: brous Captain . But Broughtous stod his ground . " No ,

L: sir . It said Llangrwl . " Llewelyn Jones sat
P: Sir . It simply said Clangnwe . " Llewelgn Jones sat

L: back in his chair . " I see . So you met a bus at
P: back in his chain . " Ise . So you met a sus at

L: All lit up . Full of people waving as you went past . "
P: Al lit up . Ful of pople woving as you went post . "

L: Suddenly he crouched forward . " Broughtons , if I thought
P: Sudanly he crouched forwad . " Broughtous , if I thought

L: there were anything in Queen's Regulations to cover this ,
P: there were angthing in Qnei's Megurlations to cor this ,

L: I 'd have you court-martialled . But I know there
P: I 'd have you court-martialed . But I know the

L: isn't , " he ended sadly . " I tried to read the
P: isuit , " he ended sadly . " I tried to read the

L: registration number , sir . But it was getting dark . "
P: registration namber , sir . But it was geting dauk . "

L: He waited . But his commanding officer appeared to
P: He vraited . Dut his comanding ofior apeared to

L: " Then we are saved , " cried the Rev. Edwards .
P: " Thon we are saved , " cried the Rev. Eclwnds .

L: Shyly , Morfydd Owen produced a block of
P: Engly , Mortyod Owen prodeced a blost of

L: He saluted , and left the presence , very crestfallen ...
P: He salated , and left the presence , very crestfalen .

L: Time passed . The bus climbed , and went quietly
P: Time pased . The bus climbed , and went quietly

L: into orbit . Time passed . The Rev. Edwards' pulpit
P: into orbit . Time pased . The REV. Edwards' pupit

L: remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai
P: remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai

L: Pugh . How could they be otherwise , when his
P: Rugh . Hor could they be otherwise , when his

L: beloved was circling the Poles at three-and-a-
P: beloved was circling the Poles at thre-and-a-

L: quarter-hour intervals , regular as clockwork ?
P: quarter-hour intervals , regalar as clockwork :.

L: Time passed . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan
P: Time pased . Everyone said , " Pity about negan

L: Thomas , isn't it , " as though they didn't really think
P: Thomas , isn'it it , " as though they didn't realy think

L: it was a pity at all ; as , indeed , they didn't .
P: it was a pily at al ; as , inded , they didn't .

L: LOCAL BUS DISAPPEARS announced the
P: CABUS DISAPEARS anounced the

L: Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored
P: Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored

L: the whole affair . Ifor Evans reported his loss
P: the whole afair . Ifor Evans reported his (os

L: to the police . But they only tut-tutted . " Lost
P: to the police . But they only tutated . " Lost

L: a bus , is it . Very careless . " That was their
P: a bas , is it . Very careles . " That was their

L: attitude . Now if there 'd been a good old accident ,
P: atitade . Now if there 'd ben a god old acident ,

L: they could have measured up the road and
P: they could have measured up the road and

L: But losing a bus ! People were always losing
P: But losing a bus ! People were always losing

L: things . You 'd be surprised , they said . So it
P: things . You'd be sarprised , they said . So it

L: seemed , for a time , that the whole affair would
P: semed , for a time , that the whole afair would

L: be written off as one of those unexplained
P: be writen of as one of those unexplained

L: mysteries , like the Marie Celeste . Then things
P: mysteries , like the MarieLeleste . Then things

L: began to happen ... But what about the voyagers ?
P: began to hapen . But what about the royagers :

L: Well , the Rev. Edwards had taken command . " Our
P: wel , the Rer. Edwards had taken comand . " Our

L: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to
P: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogoas to

L: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now
P: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now

L: what does such a person do ? He signals
P: what does sach a person do ? . He signals

L: his position by lighting bonfires or hoisting a
P: his position by lighting bonfires or hoisting a

L: flag on a palm tree . And he tries to ensure
P: Flnd on a palm tre . And he fries to ensure

L: " Can't go lighting bonfires on this bus , "
P: " C an't go lighting bonfires on this bus , "

L: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the
P: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the

L: Company's Regulations . " " Of course not , " agreed
P: Company's Regulations . " Of course not , " agred

L: the minister . " No , we have another way of signalling
P: the minister . " No , we have another way of signaling

L: our position . The driver must sound his horn
P: our position . The driver must sound his horn

L: continuously . " Gave him a look , the driver did .
P: continously . " Gare him a lok , the driver did .

L: " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely .
P: " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely .

L: " Do as I say , driver . " Very stern , the reverend
P: " No ap I ray , driver . " Very stem , the reverend

L: gentleman was . So the driver peep-peeped as
P: gentleman was . So the driver pep-peped ap

L: through empty space . " Thank you , " the Rev.
P: through empty space . " Thank you , " the Pev .

L: Edwards said courteously . " Secondly , we must
P: Edwardg said courtously . " Secondly , we must

L: pool and ration our supplies of food , if any . "
P: pol and ration our suplies of fod , if any . "

L: He looked at Price the Provisions , who was nursing
P: He loked at Price the Provisiong , who was nuning

L: " Now , who has any food ? " he asked hopefully .
P: " Now , who has any fod ? " he ased hopefuly .

L: Stared back did Price the Provisions , unwinking .
P: Stared back did Price the Prousion , unwriting .

L: " Mr. Price , I think you may be able to help us here , "
P: " Mr. Pice , I think you may be able to help us Ere ,

L: said the Rev. Edwards . Price shook his head .
P: said the Rer. Edwards . Price shod his head .

L: " Intended for Plas Newydd , this lot is . Paid for ,
P: " Intended for Play Nerwyold , this lot is . Paid for ,

L: too . " He folded his arms protectively over the basket .
P: to . " He folded his ams proteclively over the bas kut .

L: Mutinous dog , thought the Rev. Edwards , who hadn't
P: itinons doy , thought the Mer. Edwaods , who hadn't

L: enjoyed himself so much since reading Treasure
P: enjoyed himself so muh since reading Treasure

L: Island . " What have you got in that basket , Price ? "
P: Island . " What hare you got in that baskel , Price ! "

L: he roared . Quelled , Mr. Price pulled out a grocery
P: the roared . Cueled , Mr. Price puled ont a grocery

L: list , pushed his glasses up on his nose , and
P: list , pushed his glase up on his more , and

L: began to read . " Six loaves , four pounds butter ,
P: began to read . " Six loarks , four poundg buthr ,

L: two pounds marge , one tin pineapple , one York ham . "
P: two founds marge , one tin pineapl , one York han .

L: Bertram's face was grim . " You think it was the Snort ,
P: Bertran's face was grim . ' You think it way the Smort ,

L: don't you ? " John gave a short laugh . " I did , " he
P: don't you , ' John gare a short laugh . " Idid , " he

L: said ; " but I 'd better stop thinking that now .
P: said ; " but I 'd beter stop thinking that now .

L: Pericles is fitted with an identically similar one . "
P: Pericly is fiting with an identicaly similar on . "

L: " So there you are , my dear . " Peggy 's eyes filled
P: ' To there you are , my dear . " Pegy's eyes filed

L: with tears . " It 's so unfair , " she said .
P: with fears . " It 's so unfair , " she said .

L: " That little beast Robbie Munyard spent six
P: " That litle beast Robic Mnyard ospent six

L: months ashore while Pericles was refitting in the
P: months ashove while Periclp was refiting in the

L: dockyard and now that she 's ready for sea he goes
P: lobyard and now hat she's ready for sea he goep

L: sick . Just because he 's an Honourable he can do
P: sik . Just because he's an Honourable he can do

L: what he likes . Anyway , why pick on you to succeed
P: what he liker . Anyuny , why pict on you to suced

L: him ? " John didn't answer . There was no point
P: fim ? " Joln didn't answer . There wap no print

L: in sharing his discomfort with Peggy .
P: in sharing hip discomforl wil Pegy . '

L: Though your wings and your scars are new ,
P: Though your wings and your scars are new ,

L: you may join us . ' ' I am Lily-yo . We three
P: you may join us : ' I am Lily-yo . We thre

L: are humans . You are only flymen . We will
P: are humans . You are only flymen . We wil

L: not join you . ' The Captives grunted in boredom .
P: not join you " The Captives grunted in boredom .

L: The Chief Captive spoke again . ' Always this
P: The Chief Captive spoke again . ' Always this

L: talk from you of the Heavy World ! You have
P: talk from you of the Heavy World ! Yon have

L: joined us . You are flymen , we are human . You
P: joined us Yon are flymen , we are human . You

L: I saw several men running down towards
P: I saw several men runing down towards

L: the shack . They were all armed with rifles .
P: the shak . They were al armed with riftes

L: As the nearest of them came round the
P: As the nearest of them came round the

L: shack , his rifle at the ready , I saw it was Nick
P: shat , his rifte at the ready iI saw it was Nick

L: Dowd , still wearing his blue check shirt . He
P: Boud , stil wearing his blue check shirt . He

L: came up close , eyeing us suspiciously . " We 've
P: came up close ,eyeing us suspiciousty . " We 've

L: come 2a-calling , " I said . " Can't see no reason
P: come Ra-caling , " I said . " Can't se no reason

L: for calling , " he said . " Still long as you 're here
P: for caling , " he said . " Stil long as you 're here

L: you may as well stay a while .
P: you may as wel stay a while .

L: 'Light an' come on in . " We dismounted and
P: light an come on in . " We dismounted and

L: one of the miners who 'd come along with
P: one of the miners who d come along with

L: Nick Dowd took our horses off to water .
P: Nick Boud tok our horses of the water .

L: We followed Nick Dowd into the shack .
P: We folowed Nick Bond into the shack -

L: They 'd rigged up a stove of sorts and on it
P: They; 'd niged up a store of sorts and on it

L: a huge blackened coffee-pot steamed . Other
P: a huge blackened cofe-pot steamed . Other

L: miners followed in at our heels . Nick Dowd
P: miners folowed in at our hels . Wick Boud

L: found us a couple of boxes to sit on .
P: found us a couple of bozes to sit on .

L: A small man in bib overalls and a battered
P: A smal man in bib overals and a batered

L: Derby hat fussed around the stove . " 2Ain't
P: Derby hat fused around the stove . " I tint

L: exactly the Ritz Hotel but we 've got our little
P: exactly the Rite Hotel but we 've got our litle

L: comforts , " said Dowd . He introduced the men
P: comforts , ' said b oud . He introduced the men

L: who 'd come in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick
P: who'd come in as Roper Smith , shorty , Mick

L: Golightly , Swede and the Sodbuster . This last was
P: Golightly , suede and Sodbuster . This last was

L: the little hombre in big overalls . Very soon he
P: the litle hombre in big orerals . Very son he

L: had tin mugs filled with hot black coffee
P: had tin mugs filed with hot black cofe

L: sweetened with molasses for all and for us
P: swectened with molases for al and for us

L: there were two plates of beans .
P: there were two plates of beans

L: " They gives you the wind , " said the Sodbuster
P: " They gives you the wind ; " said the sSodbuster

L: handing them to us , " but it 's all we got
P: handing them to as , " but it 's al we got

L: as of now , apart from a few sacks of gold
P: as of now , apart from a few sacks of gald

L: dust . " He winked at his partners . They all
P: dust . " He winked at his partners . They al

L: watched us as we ate the beans . Then when
P: watched us as we ate the beans . Then when

L: we 'd finished and I 'd rolled a cigarette
P: we d finished and I'd roled a cigarete

L: the man called Shorty said , " You were saying when
P: the man caled shorty said , " You were saying when

L: you came in that 2somep'n happened last
P: you came in that 2somepin hapened last

L: " Yes , " I said . " Something happened all right .
P: " Yes , " I said . " Something hapened al right .

L: After you 'd left the meeting , mister " - I
P: After you'd left the meting , mister " - I

L: looked across at Nick Dowd - " someone cut
P: loked acros at Nick Bowd-" someone cut

L: down William Appleton outside the Palace
P: down Wiliam Apleton autside the Palace

L: with a shotgun . " I paused and watched my
P: with a shotgun . " I pansed and watched my

L: words affect them in their different ways .
P: words afect them in their diferent ways .

L: " That 's sure bad news , " said Dowd , sombrely .
P: " That's sure bad news , " said Doud , sombrely .

L: " It 2jest about leaves everything wide open
P: " It 2jest about leaves everything wide open

L: for Mr. Pell and his bunch , " observed
P: for Mr. Pel and his bunch , " observed

L: The rest of the men there said nothing but
P: The rest of the men there said nothing but

L: you could see they were hard hit . They were
P: you could se they were hard it . They were

L: simple men who knew a lot maybe about
P: simple men who knew a lot maybe about

L: digging for gold but were babes in arms
P: diging for gold but were babes in arms

L: when it came to dealing with owlhooters and
P: when it came to dealing with outhoters and

L: desperadoes like Pell and Fenton and the
P: desperadoes like Pel and Fenton and the

L: rest . " I guess we 'd better hold onto the gold
P: rest . " I gues we 'd beter hold onto the gold

L: right 2hyar , Nick , " said the Sodbuster .
P: right Ehyar , Nick , " said the sodbuster .

L: " Yeah , " said Dowd dubiously . " 2Mebbe we 'd
P: " Yeak , " said Boud dubiousty . " E Mebe we 'd

L: better . " Surprisingly Dan Maffrey came in at
P: beter . " Surprisingly Dan Matfrey came in at

L: that point . " If you do , " he said , " you 'll be
P: that point . " If you do , " he said , " you 'l be

L: sure asking for trouble . They 'll be on your
P: sure asking for trouble . They 'l be on your

L: necks before you can say ' knife ' . It wouldn't
P: necks before you can say ' knife " . It wouldn't

L: be the first time they 've held up a diggings
P: be the first time theyive held up a digings

L: at gun point either . They 've done it before
P: at gun point either . They're done it before

L: and got away with it . "
P: and got away with it . '

L: " You 're 2durned tootin' , mister , " said the man
P: " You 're Edurned totin " , mister , " said the man

L: called Roper Smith . " We 've got five rifles among
P: caled Roper Smith . " We 're got five riftes among

L: us and a few six-shooters . But most of us
P: us and a few six-shoters . But most of us

L: 2ain't 2eddicated in shootin' . It 'd be a
P: I aint Redicated in shotin . If 'd be a

L: 2massacree , 2yessir . " " If you 'll take a chance
P: 2masacre , Eyesix . " " If you'l take a chance

L: on getting your gold to the bank , then we 'll
P: on geting your gold to the bank , then wel

L: abide by what we said at the meeting , "
P: abide by what we said at the meting ; "

L: said Dan . " We 'll watch the stage out of reach . "
P: said Ban . " Wel watch the stage out of reach . "

L: I couldn't quite see how all this fitted in
P: I couldn't quite se how al this fited in

L: with Dan Maffrey's aim to avenge himself
P: with Dan Mafrey's aim to arenge himself

L: on the Fenton bunch but still it was a
P: on the Fenton bunch but stil it was a

L: handsome offer so I chimed in too . " That
P: handsome ofer so I chimed in to . ' That

L: goes for me , gentlemen , " I said . " If they do try
P: goes for me , gentlemen ! I said . " If they do try

L: and hold up the stage , it 'll be a couple or
P: and hold up the stage , it l be a couple or

L: three of them , no more . I reckon we can deal
P: thre of them , no more . I reckon we can deal

L: ' But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - '
P: ' But we - " ' stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - "

L: ' Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Appa Bondi said .
P: Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Apa Bondi said .

L: ' We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive . ' Some
P: 'We know much , " repeated the Chief Captive ' Sone

L: things we will tell you . All who make the journey from
P: things we wil tel you Al who make the journey from

L: the Heavy World become changed . Some die . Most live
P: the Heavy world becone changed . Sonce die . Most live

L: and grow wings . Between the worlds are many strong
P: and grow wings . Betwen the worlds are many strong

L: rays , not seen or felt , which change our bodies .
P: rays , not sen or felt , which change our bodies

L: When you come here , when you come to the True
P: When you core here , when you conce to the True

L: World , you become a true human . The grub of the
P: World , you becore a true huan . The grub of the

L: tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So humans
P: ligerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So hureans

L: change . ' ' I cannot know what he says , ' Haris said
P: change . ' ' I canot know what he says , ' Maris said

L: stubbornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and
P: stubornly , throwing hirself down . But Lily-yo and

L: ' To this True World , as you call it , we come to die , '
P: To this True world , as you cal it , we cone to dis , '

L: Lily-yo said , doubtingly . The Captive with the
P: Lily - o said , doubtingly . The Captive with the

L: fleshless jaw said , ' The grub of the tigerfly thinks
P: fleshles jew said , ' The greb of the tigerfly thinks

L: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' ' You are still
P: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . " ' You are stil

L: young , ' said the Chief Captive . ' You begin newly here .
P: young , ' said the chief Captive . " You begin newly here .

L: Where are your souls ? ' Lily-yo and Flor looked at
P: Where are your souls ! " Lily-yo and For loked at

L: each other . In their flight from the 4wiltmilt they had
P: each other . In their flight from the Awiltuilt they had

L: heedlessly thrown down their souls .
P: hedlesly thrown down their souls .

L: Haris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !
P: Maris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !

L: ' You see . You needed them no more . You are still
P: " You se . Ion neded then no more . Iou are stil

L: young . You may be able to have babies . Some of those
P: young . Lon may be abde to have babies . Some of those

L: babies may be born with wings . ' The Captive with
P: babies may be bon with wings . " The Captive with

L: the boneless arms added , ' Some may be born wrong ,
P: the boneles arus aded , ' Sone may be born wrong ,

L: as we are . Some may be born right . '
P: as we are . Sone may be born night . '

L: ' You are too foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are
P: "' You are to foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are

L: you not killed ? ' ' Because we know all things , ' the
P: ysu not kiled ! " Because we know al things , " the

L: Chief Captive said . Suddenly his second head roused
P: chief Captive said . Sudenly his second head roused

L: itself and declared , ' To be a good shape is not all
P: itself and beclared , ' To be a god shape is not al

L: in life . To know is also good . Because we cannot move
P: in life . To know is also god . Because we canot move

L: well we can - think . This tribe of the True World
P: wel we can - thint . This tribe of the True would

L: is good and knows these things .
P: is god and knows these things .

L: So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo
P: So it lets us mule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo

L: muttered together . ' Do you say that you poor
P: autered together . ' Do you say that you por

L: Captives rule the True World ? ' Lily-yo asked
P: Captives rule the True world ! " lily-yo asked

L: at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? '
P: at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? '

L: The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs connected ,
P: The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs conected ,

L: making his perpetual little gesture of protest ,
P: making his perpetual litle gesture of protest ,

L: ' To rule is to serve , woman . Those who bear power
P: To rule is to serve , woran . Those who bear power

L: are slaves to it . Only an outcast is free . Because
P: are slaves to it . Only an outcast is fre . Because

L: we are Captives , we have the time to talk and
P: we are Captives , we have the time to tak and

L: think and plan and know . Those who know
P: think and plan and know . Those who know

L: command the knives of others . ' ' No hurt will
P: comand the bnives of others . ' ' No hurt wil

L: come to you , Lily-yo , ' Band Appa Bondi added .
P: come to you , lily-yo , ' Band Apa Bondi aded .

L: ' You will live among us and enjoy your life free
P: ' You wil live among us and enjoy your life fre

L: ' No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths .
P: ' No ! " the Chief Captive said with both nouths .

L: ' Before she can enjoy , Lily-yo and her companion
P: Before she can enjoy , lily-yo and her companion

L: Flor - this other man creature is plainly useless -
P: For -this other man creature is plainly useles -

L: must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ? ' Bondi
P: must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ! ' Bondi

L: asked . ' What else ? Flor and Lily-yo , you arrive
P: asked . ' What else . Flor and Lily-yo , you arive

L: here at a good time . Memories of the Heavy World
P: here at god time . Memories of the Heavy world

L: and its savage life are still fresh in you .
P: and its savage life are stil fresh in you .

L: We need such memories . So we ask you to go
P: We ned such menories . So we ask you to go

L: back there on a great plan we have . ' ' Go back ? '
P: back there on a great plan we have . ' ' go back k "

L: gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to attack the Heavy
P: gosped For . ' Yes . We plan to atack the Heavy

L: World . You must help to lead our force . ' The long
P: world . You must help to lead our force . ' The long

L: afternoon of eternity wore on , that long golden road
P: afternon of etemity wore on , that long golden road

L: of an afternoon that would somewhere lead to
P: of an afternon that would sonewhere lead to

L: Motion there was , but motion without event - except
P: Notion there was , but notion without event -except

L: for those negligible events that seemed so large to
P: for those negligibde event that sened so large to

L: the creatures participating in them . For Lily-yo , Flor
P: the creatures participating in them . For lily-yo , Flor

L: and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was
P: and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was

L: that they learned to fly properly . The pains associated
P: that they learned to fly properly . The pains asociated

L: with their wings soon died away as the wonderful
P: with their wings son died away as the wonderful

L: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the
P: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the

L: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly
P: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly

L: flopping movements of flymen on the Heavy World
P: floping movement of flymen on the Heavy world

L: Alastair was a bachelor . All his life he had
P: Mastoir was a bocketor . Al his life he had

L: been inclined to regard women as something
P: ben iclined to regard romen as something

L: which must necessarily be subordinated to his
P: which must ncesaiy be subordinaled to his

L: career . Now he realised that he was entrusting not only
P: carer . Non he realised that he was entrusting not only

L: his own life , but Geoffrey's as well , to a strange girl
P: his own wife , but Geofrey 's as wele , to a stronge gul

L: whom he had never met and on whom after no more
P: thom he had never mot and on whom after nomore

L: than a couple of telephone calls he was
P: than a couple of tephone cals he was

L: prepared to place complete reliance .
P: prepared to prace compuele releiance

L: " Good luck , Air Marshal , " she said gently . " I 'll
P: God luck , tir Maisnal , " she said gently . " J'l

L: be waiting for you at the Hotel Roma at six this
P: i be waiting fer you at the Hotel Roma at fir this .

L: evening - and I shall look forward to meeting you
P: evening - and I shal lok foward to milting you

L: both at midnight . " They might have been
P: both at midnight . " They might have ben

L: arranging a supper party . Then she rang off .
P: aranging a super pary . Then sue rang of .

L: Alastair admitted that never in a not altogether
P: Masteir admited that never in a not altogether

L: uneventful life had he come across a girl who
P: uneventful bfe had he come acros agire sno

L: sounded so charming and appeared to be so
P: sounded so charming and apeared to beso

L: It was a novel experience . Alastair was
P: It was a novel expertence . Alastair was

L: quite unable to explain why he should feel
P: queite uable to explain why he should fel

L: so much confidence in her . Once again
P: So much comfiolence in Mer . Once again

L: she checked back her instructions . It was
P: she checked back her instructions . It was

L: obvious that she did not fail to appreciate the
P: obvious that she did not fail to apreciate the

L: faith which he was placing in her and
P: faith which he was placing in her and

L: was prepared to accept the responsibility .
P: was prepared to acept the responsiblity .

L: For some reason the orderlies had forgotten
P: For some reason the orderlies had forgoten

L: to switch on the lights ; there was no colour -
P: Ar writch on the lighte ; there was no calour-

L: physical features were distinguishable solely by
P: phupical features were distingnishable solely by

L: gradations of silvery greyness . Even the snow-
P: oradations of silveny greyes . Even the mnor-

L: capped summit of Mont Blanc , seven miles
P: caped sumit of Mout Dlanc , even miles

L: below , was not recognisable among the host
P: below , was not recoprisable amony the hast

L: of lower peaks . The screen of the air-to-air
P: of lover peats . The screw of the ar-to-oir

L: radar glowed . Occasionally minute spots
P: radar glowed . Ecasionaly minte spots

L: flickered across its surface , but there was
P: flickened acros its surface , but there who

L: In the exceptional clarity he was even able to
P: In the exceptional cdarity he was even able to

L: make a direct comparison between the radar
P: make a direct comparison betwen the radar

L: image and the ground itself . Ahead lay the
P: image and the greund itself . thead lay the

L: Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the
P: Plain of Lembardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the

L: left , Milan . The directional angle of the
P: Veft , Milan . The directional anghe of the

L: scanner could be adjusted to cover any
P: scaner could be adjusted to cever any

L: particular area within its range . Geoffrey
P: particular area within its range , efrey

L: turned the scale slowly to cover the
P: turned the scale stawly # to cover the

L: ground immediately ahead .
P: ground imediately he ad .

L: Now , as Alastair reduced the thrust , the
P: Nor , as Hlastin reduced the thrnot , the

L: pitch changed as the nose of the aircraft
P: pitch changed as the nose of the aimcraf

L: dipped slightly . The needle of the speed
P: liped slightly . The nedle of the oped

L: recorder swung gently through 8.0 , 7.0 , 6.0
P: recorder armung gently through 8 , 8 , 3.0,6.0

L: before coming to rest at 5.0 . " We 're a bit
P: before coming to rest at 5.s . " He re a bit

L: ahead of time , " said Alastair . " We 'll run
P: shend of time , said Hastir " He 'l run

L: in on minimum engine power . " Geoffrey
P: in on minimum engine pover . " feofrey

L: smiled . Alastair talked of running in when
P: amiled . Alastain talked of nuning in when

L: they were still more than four hundred
P: they mere stil more than four Lundred

L: miles from their destination .
P: miled from Hheir destination .

L: He was able to pick out towns , unrecognisable to the
P: He was able to pick out towns , unrecognitable to the

L: naked eye , obscured by the ground haze which even
P: naked eye , obicured by the groand hake which even

L: on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced
P: on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced

L: at the speed recorder . It seemed almost incredible that
P: at the sped recorder . It semed almort incredible that

L: the tiny white figure of 8.5 against which the needle
P: the tiny white figure of 5.5 against which the nede

L: was resting could really mean hundreds of knots .
P: was resting could realy mean hundreds of knots .

L: They were nearing Modena . Geoffrey focused the radar scanner
P: They were nearing Modena. Geofrey focused the radar scamer

L: on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port .
P: on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port

L: He was able to trace the course of the river ; he
P: the wres able to trace the course of the rwer' ;

L: thought he could recognise the route of N12 ,
P: thought he could repeorgnise the riuk of WHRitle

L: along which he had motored so desperately little
P: along which he had motored so despercitely

L: more than twenty-four hours earlier . Since then
P: more that twenty-lour hours earlier . Since then

L: he had flown to England , attended the vital
P: he had flown to Eigland , atended the vital

L: conference in Bruce Denton's office , been whisked
P: conference in Bruce s ofice , ben whisted

L: by special helicopter from the Horse Guards
P: by special helicepter from the Horse Guards

L: Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for six blessed
P: Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for 94x., blesed ,

L: refreshing hours and had now completed two-thirds
P: refreshina hours and had now completed two-thurds

L: of the journey back to the place where every
P: of the flurney back to the place where , every

L: indication pointed to Eve being held .
P: indieation pointed to . Ee being held .

L: Geoffrey set himself to consider the
P: geopey sed himself to censider the

L: movements of the Bentley . It had passed
P: movements of the Frentlay . It had pasped

L: him at the temporary bridge over the
P: him at the temporary tndge over the

L: Tartaro at a few minutes past ten on the
P: Tartaro ot a few miniter past ten on tho

L: previous night . He worked out the distance
P: previous night . He worked out the distance

L: on the presumption that its route had been
P: on the presuemphior that its roite had ben

L: through Florence and Rome and then
P: through Flerene and pome and then

L: across Italy via Foggia to Barletta .
P: aeros 1tbly via Fogia to Darlta .

L: It came to just over six hundred
P: It came to just over six hundred

L: DARKNESS had descended like a curtain by the
P: DHRENES had descended like a curtain by the

L: time they docked at Belleray . And though Guy ,
P: time they docked at Belesay . And though hny ,

L: made nervous by Beryl's silence , drove at reckless
P: made hervous by Bery's silence , drore at reckles

L: speed to the Villa , it was quickly evident that
P: sped to the rila , it was quickly evident that

L: the party was over . Piers came strolling out to
P: the party was over . Piers came stroling out to

L: meet the Deanes , and as soon as Guy had
P: met the Deanes , and as son as bny had

L: driven away , invited them casually to come to
P: driven away , invited them casnaly to come to

L: " Oh , she was due ! " And then he added in the same
P: "ich , she was due ! " And then he aded in the same

L: casual tone , " She 's not returning to her family . She 's
P: cesual tone , " She 's not returning to her family . She's

L: going to live with friends of the bank manager , just
P: going to live with friends of the bank manager , just

L: this side of Belleray . " Mrs. Deane made a suitable
P: this side of Beleray . " Mrs. Deane made a suitable

L: comment , but Beryl said nothing . She was trying
P: coment , but Beryl said nothing . She was trying

L: to sort things out in her mind . That beneath his
P: to sort things out in her mind . That beneath his

L: unnaturally smooth exterior Piers was simmering
P: unaturaly smoth exterior Pies was simering

L: with anger against her she had no doubt .
P: with anger against her she had no doubt .

L: To Beryl , at least , this was anti-climax with a
P: To Bery' , at leaist , this was anti-climax with a

L: vengeance . She had expected to be met with violent
P: Vengeance . She had expected to be met with vident

L: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .
P: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .

L: But it did not take her long to realise that his mood
P: But It did not take her long to realise that his mod

L: was less pleasant than appeared on the surface .
P: was les pleasant than apeared on the surfuce .

L: He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his
P: He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his

L: own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of
P: own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of

L: asking Jack - as a representative of the Vallin family -
P: asking Jack -as a representative of the Valin family-

L: to come over and make the presentation in her stead .
P: to come over and make the presentation in her stead .

L: " I caught him just as he was going to the
P: " I cught him just as he was going to the

L: airport to meet Blanche , " he said . " As a matter
P: airport to met Blanche , " he said " As a mater

L: of fact I 'd asked him last night to deputise
P: of fact I 'd ushed him last night to diputise

L: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party
P: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party

L: too . They 're both here . " " I didn't know she was
P: to . They 're both here . " " I dids't know she was

L: coming back from Barbados so soon . " Beryl
P: coming back from Barbados asoson . " Beryl

L: said the first thing that came into her head .
P: said the first thing that came into her head .

L: Jack and Blanche were quick to sympathise , and to
P: lack and blanhe were quick to sympathicg and to

L: express their disgust at Sir John's abominable treatment
P: eapes their disgest of Sir thais atomable treatoent

L: of his guests . But Piers remained aloof , and when Beryl
P: of his gquests . B. Pie remained alof and when Beryt

L: suggested having a second party , the following week , he
P: sugested havins a second purty , the folowing wet , he

L: poured cold water on the project . Everyone , he declared ,
P: pouted old wats on the prject . Froryonre , he dedared ,

L: had had a thoroughly good time , and it would take them
P: had had a thrughly god time , and it would tale them

L: nearly to next week to settle down again . Meanwhile
P: nearly to net wek " to setle doun again. Meanwhile

L: Hubert would have betaken himself and his well-
P: Autent would have betalen himself and his wel-

L: earned gratuity to his native village at the
P: earned gratuity tho his native vilage at the

L: " It 's your superior attitude that riles me . " Beryl was
P: " H's your superior atitude that riles me . " Beryl was

L: scarlet with annoyance . " How I happened to be marooned
P: scarlet with anoyance . " tw I hpened to be maraned

L: at Balicou doesn't interest you in the faintest degree . You
P: at falicon doesn't interest you in the faintest degre Ir

L: look as though it was only what you expected of me ,
P: lok as though it was only whot you exjeted of me ,

L: as though I didn't care a hoot about letting Hubert
P: as thaugh I didet care a host about leting thmbert

L: It was all over and done with .
P: It was al oves and done with .

L: For the time being Beryl was content to let
P: For the time being beryl was content to let

L: it go at that , but she resolved to have
P: it go at that , but she resolved to have

L: it out with Piers when a reasonable
P: it out with Piers when a reasonable

L: opportunity presented itself . He must
P: oportunity presented itself . He must

L: learn that he could not treat her
P: learn that he could not treat her

L: with injustice and contempt , ignoring
P: with injustice and contempt , ighoring

L: her explanations as though he were
P: he explanations as though he were

L: a schoolmaster and she a small ,
P: a scholmaster and she a smal ,

L: He gave her no chance of any private
P: lte gave he na chance of any private

L: conversation that evening , for when
P: conversatron that evenig , for when

L: Blanche and Jack left , he went with
P: Blancke and Fack left , he wht with

L: them . But next morning she insisted
P: them . But nxt morning she insisted

L: on his taking her out in the jeep -
P: on his takcing her out in the jeap-

L: to find , if possible , Hubert and his
P: to find , it posible , Itmbert and his

L: relations , and tell them of
P: relations , and thet tel them of

L: her great disappointment at being
P: hen great disapointment at being

L: held up in Balicou .
P: help t io in Balicon .

L: With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his
P: Bith an air of resignation he sent Judy , his

L: Boxer , to the back , and made room for her
P: Boxer , to the back , and made rom for her

L: beside him . " Is that all you want to do ? "
P: beside him . " Is that al you vast to do ? "

L: he asked , letting in the clutch . " No ; I want
P: he asked , leting in the clutch . ' No ; vast

L: to make you understand just what happened
P: to make you understard just what haspered

L: about this Balicou trip , " she returned
P: about this Balicon trip , " she roturned

L: coldly . " I 'm a little tired of being treated
P: coldly . " I 'm a litle tired of bling treated

L: like an ineffective imbecile . "
P: like an inefective imblcile . "

L: " And I 'm heartily sick of being constantly called
P: " And I 'm heartily sicde of being constantly caled

L: to account for my manners , " he retorted .
P: to acont for my maners , " he retorted .

L: " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for
P: " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for

L: you the best way I can by getting hold of Jack
P: you the best way I can by seting hold of tack

L: to make the presentation , I run the damned
P: to make the presentation , Irur the damned

L: party to the best of my ability - saying the
P: party to the bet of my ability - saying the

L: sugary things you ought to have been there
P: sngary things you ought to have ben there

L: to say - and all you can do is to find
P: to say-and al you can do is to find #

L: " As your employee it 's not my business
P: " As your employe it 's not my busines

L: to understand all the whys and
P: to understand al the whys and

L: wherefores of your actions , " he said
P: wherefores of your actions , " he said

L: stiffly . " Still less to criticise you . "
P: stifly . " Stil les to criticise you .

L: " Oh , drop that nonsense , Piers !
P: "Oh , drop that nonsese , Piers ?

L: Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with
P: Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with

L: mounting exasperation . " Very well ! " He
P: mounting exasperation . " Very wel ? " He

L: brought the jeep to a standstill in a rough
P: brought the jep to a standstil in a rough

L: path fringed and shaded by citrus trees .
P: path fringed and shaded by citmus tres .

L: " If you want my true opinion I 'll give it .
P: " If you want my true opinion I 'l giveit .

L: You made some sort of a protest to Graybury .
P: Yon made some sort of a protest to Grapbury .

L: I 'll give you credit for that . But you didn't press
P: I 'l give you credit for that . But you didn't pres

L: the matter because , very naturally , you were
P: the mater because , very naturaly , you were

L: thoroughly enjoying Forrest's company in
P: thoroughly enjoying Forest's company in

L: idyllic surroundings . " " How dare you say
P: idylic suroundings . " " How dare you say

L: such a thing ? " she blazed . " For goodness'
P: such a thing ? " she blaged . " For godnes "

L: sake show a glimmer of reason , " was his
P: sake show a glimer of reason , " was his

L: equally indignant rejoinder .
P: equaly indigment rejoinder .

L: " You talk as though we were alone on Balicou ! "
P: " You talk as though we were alone on Balicon ! "

L: She avoided his gaze , and tried to ignore that
P: She avoided his gase , and tried to ignone that

L: last impertinent remark . " With four other people - "
P: last impertinent remark . " With four other people- "

L: " Whom you never once managed to circumvent . "
P: " Whom you never once managed to circumient . "

L: The mockery in his voice had deepened . " With
P: The mockery in his voice had depened . " With

L: all due deference , Miss Deane - come off it ! "
P: al due deference , Mis Deane - come of it ! "

L: She met his eyes then .
P: She muet his eyes then .

L: She wavered , and at last said
P: She wavered , and at last said #

L: slowly , " If you must drag the truth
P: scowly , " If you must drag the truth

L: out of me , I must ask you to regard
P: out of me , I must ask you to regard

L: it as confidential . " " My dear Beryl ,
P: it as confidential . " " Hy dear bery( ,

L: don't tell me anything , if you 'd rather
P: don't tel me anything , if yaud rather

L: not . " He was clearly startled by her
P: not . " He was clearly startled by her

L: words . " But remember , it was you ,
P: words . " But remember , it was you ,

L: not I , who started this conversation . "
P: not , who started this conversation . "

L: " Neither can Nigel , " smiled Diana .
P: " Neither can Nigel , " smiled Diana .

L: " He 's saving up to get married . Remember ? "
P: " He 's saving up to get maried . Remember ? "

L: " I remember , " quipped the houseman ,
P: " O remember , " quiped the houseman ,

L: meaning no offence , " but does he ?
P: meaning no ofence , " but does he ?

L: That blonde was something . " " Anybody
P: That blonde was something . " " Anybody

L: I know ? " she smiled . " I think so .
P: I know ? " she smiled . " A think so .

L: I got a good look at her . But if Nigel
P: s got a god lok at hes . But if Nigel

L: wasn't there it isn't important , is it ? "
P: wasn't there it isn't important , is it ? "

L: " No , " Di said immediately . " It isn't at
P: " No , " Di said imediatly . " It isn't at

L: " Oh , he wasn't . His motor-bike had
P: " OL , he wasn't . His motor-bike had

L: broken down outside and he noticed
P: broken down outside and he noticed

L: your car and then you dancing with
P: your car and then you dancing with

L: this blonde . " " Really ? " Nigel cocked
P: this blonde . " " Realy ? " Nigel cocded

L: one eyebrow . " Actually she was brunette
P: one eyebrow . " Actualy she was brunete

L: at the roots and I had a redhead on
P: at the rots and I had a redhead an

L: the other arm . He would have told
P: the other arm . He would have thold

L: you this , too ? " " No , " she laughed .
P: you this , to ? " " No , " she langhed .

L: " He didn't actually see you . Because
P: " He didn't actualy seyeu . Because

L: it was your car I suppose he
P: it was your car I supose he

L: presumed it was you , all dressed up in
P: presumed it was you , al dresed up in

L: " My white or my black ? " Nigel enquired .
P: " Hy white or my black ? " Nigel enquired .

L: " Now I wonder which I wore at that
P: " Now I wondes which I wore at that

L: particular surgery ? " " You are a fool ,
P: particular surgesy : " " You are a fol ,

L: darling , " Di said happily . " I shall take
P: darking , " Di said hapily . " I shal take

L: great pleasure in telling that young man
P: great pleasure in teling that young man

L: exactly what you were doing that
P: exatly what you were doing that

L: evening . " " No , don't , " he said , after
P: evening . " " No , don't , " he said , after

L: kissing her again . " I rather like to have
P: eising her again . " I rather like to have

L: the housemen think of me as a
P: the housemen think of me as a

L: I 'm such a dull fellow , really . " " Dull ? " She
P: I'm such a ducl felow , realy . " " Dul ? " she

L: couldn't believe it . Self-deprecation
P: Couldn't believe it . Self-depre cation

L: was not one of Nigel's usual attributes .
P: was not one of vigel's usual atibutes .

L: " You need your holiday , darling . I only
P: " You ned your holiday , darling . I only

L: wish I could go with you ! " " Doctor
P: wish y could go with you l " " Doctor

L: Wills , if you 're making improper suggestions ... ? "
P: Wils , if you're making improper sugestions . ? "

L: " It would make me more interesting ,
P: " It would make me more interesting .s

L: I suppose ? " she enquired archly .
P: I supose ? " she enquired archly .

L: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almost snapped ,
P: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almost shaped ,

L: surprising her . " You sounded like some-
P: surprising her . " You sounded lile some-

L: body else for a moment there . It doesn't
P: body ebse for a moment there . It doesn't

L: become you to behave like a - a tart , Di . "
P: become you to behave like a - a tart . )r. "

L: " Nigel - ! " she gasped . " I didn't mean to
P: " Nigel - ? " she gasped . " I didn't mean to

L: behave like anything of the kind . I
P: behav like anything of the lednd . I

L: was only joking . " " Well , don't . It 's
P: was onlyjoking . " " Wel , don't . It's

L: miserable enough my having to take my
P: miserable enough my having to take ny

L: leave in the autumn without you
P: leare in the autumn without you

L: trying to be bright and gay about it .
P: trying to be bright and gay about it .

L: Their air of smiling somnolence showed them
P: Their air of smiling somolence showed them

L: to have been guests at yesterday's
P: to have ben quests at yesterday's

L: celebrations , and their friendly welcome
P: celebrations , and their friendly welcome

L: and warm sympathy , as she explained
P: and warm sympathy , as she explained

L: how she had come to miss the party ,
P: how she had come to mis the party ,

L: made her send a complacent glance
P: made her send a complacent glance

L: in Piers' direction . What a fuss-box the
P: in Paers'" direction . What a fus-box the

L: man was , she thought impatiently ,
P: man was , she thought unipatuntly ,

L: trying to worry her into the belief
P: trying to wory her in to the belief

L: that her failure to appear at a function
P: that her failure to apear at a finction

L: on the estate was a major error :
P: on the estate was a major eror :

L: And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing
P: And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing

L: beside her , his battered hat in his hand , his
P: beside her , his betered hat in his hand , his

L: toothless mouth stretched in a wide grin , told her
P: tolales mauth stretched in a midegrin , hold her

L: in halting 6patois that " 3Mistah Piers " had
P: in halting 6patois that " SMistah Picrs " had

L: explained right at the start that " 3Mis' Beryl "
P: coeplained right at the start that " 3Mis" Beryl "

L: would be 3" plenty , plenty sad " not to be back
P: would be 3' plenty , plenty sad " not to be bad at

L: That it wouldn't be her fault at all . That
P: That it mouldn't be her foult at al . That

L: she was a lady who , like her Uncle Charles ,
P: she was a lady who , like her lncde Charla ,

L: took the highest pride in keeping her word . " I
P: toch the highest prick in keping her word . " I

L: could see 3anudder 3t'ing , " he went on in a
P: could se Bander 3ting , " he went on inc

L: lower voice , his sunken black eyes twinkling .
P: lower voice , his suten black eyes tutinkling .

L: 3" He powerful anxious , poor Mistah Piers .
P: 3 " He poulrful ancious , pour Mistah Prers .

L: We all know how Balicou Island dangerous
P: We al know how Balicon bland dongerous

L: to all kin' o' boats , wid d'ose big , big
P: to al kint of boats , wid diose big , bis

L: rocks in an' out o' de water .
P: rocks in ant out af de wceter .

L: He had almost entirely settled back into his old
P: He had almost enstirely setled bock into his old

L: ways , even to reading law about two hours each
P: ways , evens to reading law about two bours each

L: day . Though he did not refuse wine , which the
P: day . Though he did not refuse wina , which the

L: judge always had on the table at dinner , he
P: judge alwoys had on the table at disner , he

L: did not act as though he found it necessary
P: did not act as though he found it necesary

L: except in moderate compliance with his father's
P: except in moderake compliance with his father's

L: Around that rounded rocky promontory where the
P: Aroud that rounched rody promontory where the

L: white spray could be seen flying across the distance
P: white spray could be sen flying acrows the distaice

L: of a mile and a half , came the yawl under her full
P: of a mile and a half , came the youl under hs fil

L: triangular sail , and to the judge's frightened eyes , so
P: trianguhr sail , and to the judge's frightend eyes , so

L: close to the rocks that it would be dashed
P: alose to the rocks that it would be dashed

L: against them with the lift of the next wave .
P: against them with the lift ofthe next ware

L: " That boy ! That damned fool boy ! What does he mean
P: " That boy That damned fol boy What dor he mican

L: by trying to come home now , even if he did promise ?
P: by toying to come home now , even if he old promce ?

L: What does time mean when weighed against the life of
P: What doer time mean when weghed apainst the life of

L: two human beings ? " Not until he was certain that the
P: two humen beings ? " Not wnil he was certain that the

L: yawl had rounded the rocky point instead of
P: paul had rounded the rochy point instead of

L: being flung against the huge boulders did the judge
P: being fung apainst the hyge boulders did the gudge

L: empty his lungs of stifling air and refill them
P: empty hit hngs of stifliry ar and refil them

L: with part of that howling northwest gale .
P: with part of thet howling north nert fale .

L: When the wind was on a rampage , as it was
P: When the wind was on a rampape , as it was

L: now , it could kick up a sea-sized commotion
P: nows , it could kick up a sea-sited comotion

L: where it had a straight blow of eight miles
P: where it had a straight blow of eight miles

L: down the lake . 3" Big blow , Judge , " re-
P: down the lake . 3 " Big blow , Tudge , " re-

L: marked Willie Kim as the wind billowed
P: marked Wilie kim as the wind bilowed

L: out and sucked in his baggy black
P: bout and stucked in his bagy black

L: 3" Blow like hell . Maybe by and by
P: I " Dow like hel . Nagbe by and by

L: she blow some more . " " Hello , Willie , where
P: she blow some more . " " Helo , Wilie , wheric

L: did you come from ? " the judge said in
P: did yau come from ? " the findge said in

L: mild surprise . " I didn't hear you . Do you
P: mild surprise . " I didn't hear gou . Do you

L: see that fool boy of mine out there on
P: se that fol boy of mine out there on

L: the lake ? " 3" I see him . You don't need
P: the lake ? " I " I se him . You don't ned

L: worry , Judge . Big wind like that can't
P: wory , fudge . Dng wind like that can't

L: Bill is good man , and Bueno Buck is raised on lake .
P: Bil is godman , and Bveno Buck is raised on lake .

L: He no drown , too . Him , his mother throw him into
P: He no drown , to . Him , his mother throw himinto

L: water to make him swim when he is born .
P: water to make him sarim when he is Jarm .

L: Maybe so Bill , he can swim that good , too . "
P: Mayse so Bil , he can swvim that god , to . "

L: The yawl , riding the high waves with an air that
P: The youl , riding the high wave s with an air that

L: might have made an ocean liner envious , seemed
P: might have made an ocon tiner enrious , semed

L: prepared to make a safe though violent landing
P: prepared to make a sofe though vident landing

L: when there came a sudden gust of wind
P: when there came a suden #o gust of wind

L: " My God ! " the judge cried out . " The boy
P: " my God . " the judge csied out . " The boy

L: is going to try to make a landing on the
P: is going to try to make a auding on the

L: weather side of that pier ! He 'll wreck ! "
P: weather side of that pier ! He l sreke ! "

L: Willie Kim was speechless , only his slant
P: kilie Kim was spechles , only his sant

L: black eyes showing any emotion . With a
P: black eyes shosing any enotion . With a

L: quick shift of tiller , and at the same time
P: quick shift of tiler , and at the same time

L: jibbing the boom to which he had the
P: jibing the bom to shich he had the

L: stay rope fastened , Bill made the
P: stay rope fastened , Bil made the

L: It seemed to the frightened judge
P: It semed to the frightened judge

L: as though his son would actually
P: as though his son would actualy

L: shoot the craft in under the outer
P: shot the craft in under the outer

L: end of the wharf . But by pressing
P: and of the whart . But by presing

L: the tiller hard over and at the
P: Whe tiler had over and at the

L: same time dropping the small sheet
P: same time doping the smal shet

L: of wet canvas , Bill cleared the
P: of wet canas , bil cleared the

L: corner of the pier by inches , and
P: corher of the pies by inches , and

L: with the tiller still hard over , brought
P: with the tiler stil had over , brought

L: the yawl up against the waves
P: the yourt up against the waves

L: " Willie , " the judge said huskily ,
P: " Wilie , " the fudge said hurskily ,

L: " that was as pretty a piece of seamans-
P: " that was as prety a piece of reamaus-

L: hip as I ever saw . That boy of
P: hip as I ever Yaw . That hoy of

L: mine seems to know how to do
P: minwe sems to know hou to do

L: everything , when he wants to . "
P: enerytering , when he mauts to . "

L: " 3Naw , " disputed Willie . 3" Just
P: " 3 Naw , " dispuoted wilie , 3 " Just

L: play in damn fine luck this time .
P: play in danw time luck this timue .

L: He plenty smart though . " As they
P: te Plenty seart though . " As they

L: reached the pier , the judge on legs
P: tached the pier , the judge our legs

L: that were a little unsteady , they
P: that were a litle unsteady , threy

L: found Bueno Buck , now on the
P: found tuewo Buck , now on the

L: pier , leading the yawl toward
P: Pierleadnathy yauh thard

L: " Hello , Dad ! " Bill called . " I hope you
P: " Itlo , Yod . " Bil coled . " I hope you

L: weren't worried . We 're going to
P: were't wonried . We're going to

L: drag the boat ashore and turn
P: drog the bok athore and turn

L: her over . She has a foot of
P: hes over . The hos a fot of

L: water in her . I wouldn't be
P: wrate in ter . I wouldn'f be

L: surprised if we broke all
P: surpised if we broke ol

L: speed records on the way in .
P: sped records on the woy in .

L: Yes sir , I am slightly wet , and
P: Jes Sir , I am shightly wef , and

L: Buck would be wetter if he
P: fuch would . We wetler if he

L: had more clothes on . "
P: had mone clotls ou . ?

L: With four doing the job and the waves
P: With four doing the jols and the waves

L: pushing at the stern , the yawl was soon
P: pusthing at the stern , the yaul was son

L: dragged out but before it was turned
P: dragsed out but before it was turned

L: over Bueno Buck reached into the foot
P: over Bueno Buck reached into the fot

L: of water , tossed out a string of silvery
P: of water , tosed out a string of silvery

L: lake trout and said - 3" Bill , he 's better
P: Take trout and said - 3 ' Bil , he 's beter

L: man at catch 'em than Injun , Judge .
P: man at catch iem than Ingun , gudge .

L: You look . Little one more as fifteen
P: You lok . Litle one more as fiften

L: inches . Maybe big one four feet ,
P: inches . Maybe big one four fect ,

L: " By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! "
P: " By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! "

L: exclaimed the judge . " Toss them on the grass
P: exclaimed the judge . " Tos them on the gran

L: and then we 'll all get hold and heave . " A
P: and then we 'l al get hold and heave . A

L: few moments later the yawl was upside
P: fewr moments lader the yaul was upside

L: down , exposing its shallow keel .
P: down , exposing ids stalow kel .

L: A submariner's wife needed to be spared as much
P: Aa submariner's wife neded to be spared as muce

L: as possible . Anyway the Parsifal affair was far
P: as posible . Anyway the Parsifal afair was far

L: too fresh in both their minds to be a comfortable
P: t0o fresh in both their minds to be a comfortablo

L: subject for discussion . " It 's a command , " he said .
P: subject for discusion . " I 's a comand , " he said .

L: We can do with the extra money . It 'll just about
P: We can do with the extra money . Stl sist about

L: pay Jacky's school fees . " " What shall we do
P: pay takl's shol fes . " " What shal we do

L: about this house ? - and Jill's school ? - and oh !
P: about this house ? - and Jil's shod k- and ch i

L: If I 'd known what it would be like I 'd sooner
P: If I 'd known what it would be like I 'd sconer

L: have married a parson . " He kissed her . " Parsons
P: have maried a parson . " lde Risedher . " Parsons

L: work on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse off than
P: work on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse af than

L: submariners . You ought to have married that fat
P: submariners , You ought to have maried that fat

L: stockbroker chap and shared him with his three
P: Stokbroter chap and shared him with his thre

L: mistresses . Anyway it might be much worse .
P: mistreses . Anyway it night be much worse .

L: Pericles is a Portsmouth boat . She spends longer
P: Pericles is a Portsmouth boat . She spends longer

L: in harbour than any other submarine .
P: in Larbour than any other sutomanines .

L: Practically a shore job . Cheer up . " She wiped
P: Practicaly a shore job . Cher up . " She wiped

L: her eyes and reached for her address book . " I 'll
P: her eyes and reaced f or her adves bok . " g'l

L: write to those agents and try to get a flat in
P: write to those agents and try to set a flat in

L: Alverstoke , " she said . " But I don't know what
P: Meverstolae , " she said . " But I don't Enow what

L: Jill will say about leaving her school . It 's a
P: J'il wil say about leaving her shol . It's a

L: blessing that Jacky 's off to boarding school .
P: blesing that Jacky's of to boarding shol .

L: And all the trouble you 've taken with the
P: And al the trouble you 're laken with the

L: That little beast , Robbie Munyard ! " Having
P: that litle beast , Robie Munyard ! " Maring

L: said her say Peggy manfully shouldered her
P: said her say Pepy manufuly shouldeved her

L: burden and prepared to break up yet
P: # burden and prepared to break up Vet

L: another home . In the ten years of married life
P: another home . In the tenyears of marnied life

L: this had already happened half a dozen times .
P: this had already hapened half a dozen times .

L: Such is the life of a naval officer's wife .
P: Sud is the life of a naval afecer's wife .

L: John's father had been a naval officer of the old
P: John's father had ben a naval aficer of the old

L: school ; some of his rigid ideas had been passed
P: SclOol ; some of his rigid ideas had ben pased

L: on to the second generation . One of these was that
P: on to the second generation . One of these was that

L: an officer should join a ship , on taking up a
P: an eficer should soin a ship , on taking up a

L: new appointment , at nine a.m. precisely , dressed
P: new apointment , at nine am . precisely , dresed

L: in the modern equivalent of frock-coat and sword .
P: in the modern equiralent of trok-coat and sword ,

L: It would have been acceptable to all concerned
P: It would have ben aceptable to al concemed

L: if John had stepped into Fort Blockhouse clad in
P: if John had steped into Fort Rlochouse clad in

L: plain-clothes on the previous night , but ways
P: plain-clothes on the previous night , but ways

L: instilled by martinet parents have a habit of
P: instiled by martinet pavents have a habit of

L: So he put up for the night at The Admiral's Head , that
P: So he put up for the night at The Admiral ' " Head , that

L: famous Portsmouth hostelry , second only in historic
P: famous Portmanth hostelvy , secand only in hustoric

L: interest to The George , unhappily destroyed by German
P: interest to The Ceorge , unhapily destrayed by German

L: bombs during the last war . Having deposited his
P: lonls during the last war . Haning depositod his

L: baggage and unpacked his overnight-bag he
P: lagage and cmparked his overnight-bag he

L: went in search of a drink . The lower bar was
P: went in search of a drinle . The lower bar was

L: empty , save for the lady known by all habitue
P: empty , save for thelady known by al habitue

L: man who was staring moodily into a gin
P: man who was staring mcotily into a gin

L: Seaweed's memory was prodigious ; her manner
P: Seaned's memory was prodigicus ; her maner

L: must have been worth a great deal to the proprietors
P: must have ben worth a great deal to the proprie tan

L: of the hotel . She greeted John , however , with less
P: of the hatel . She oprected Jahn , hewever , with les

L: than her usual cordiality and flashed a warning
P: than has uesual cardiality and flashed a warning

L: glance at him . Evidently the other occupant
P: glance at him. Enisdantly the other cupant

L: of the bar was not 6persona grata . If her
P: of the lar was not Eper-sana grata . If her

L: memory was good , so was this stranger's .
P: money whas god , so was this stranger's

L: " You 're Commander Winter , " he said . " Have a
P: " You 're Comander Winter , " he said . " Itaue a

L: gin ? " He turned to Seaweed -
P: gin ? " te turned to Seaived -

L: " Make it a large one , darling . I know the naval
P: " Make it a large are , darling . I Enceur the naval

L: habits . ' Drink gin and call each other wallahs ,
P: halits . " Prik Gfin and cal each athes walais ,

L: what ! ' - as the Guards officer said on his return
P: What ! " - as the Euards oficer said on his returm

L: from a visit to the Royal Navy . Submarines , what .
P: fron a visit to the Royal Mary . Sulmanines , what .

L: Youngest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled
P: Younegest D.S.C . in the whr , what ? Crauled

L: inside a submarine casing to defuse a Jerry
P: inside a submarine casing to defuse a Fery

L: bomb . Should have been a V.C.
P: lnb . Should have ben a 1.C.

L: What are you waiting for , darling ? The officer is
P: Wleatare you waiting for , darling ? The aficor . is

L: obviously thirsty . " John fought back his
P: almiously therishys . " Jotin faught back his

L: inherited desire to snub the man . If he did he
P: inherited desive to snub the mas . If he did he

L: would have to leave the bar and either sit in
P: would have ho leave the lar and either sit in

L: the lounge or return to his bedroom .
P: the lamge ar return to his hed romn .

L: Seaweed sensed his embarrassment and
P: Seared sensed his emuluranment and

L: came to the rescue . " You haven't introduced
P: came to the resoue . " Yau haven't introduced

L: yourself , " she said with mock severity .
P: yourself , " she said with make severity .

L: " It 's a rule on these premises . No treating with
P: " It sa mulean these premises . to trealing with

L: strangers - that 's right , John , isn't it ? " " My
P: strangers - that 's righst - falm , isn't it ? " " My

L: fault entirely , " said the stranger . " It 's my conceited
P: faultentiely , " said the shranger . " It 's my canceited

L: nature - I assumed that you both knew who I
P: nature- " Tanumed that you bath knesuer who I

L: was . I 'm Ian Bawley . Does that mean anything
P: ras . I om Ian Bauley . Joes that mean onything

L: to you ? " It did . Ian Bawley's name was
P: to you ? " Atdid . Ian Bawley's name was

L: printed at the head of most naval articles
P: preinted at the head of mast nawd arkiles

L: " Oh , the Press , " said Seaweed . " Down here on business , Mr.
P: " ch , the Pres : " said Seawed , " Hown here ore busines . Mr.

L: Bawley ? " " A pressman is always on the job . "
P: Bawley ? " " A presman is always on the job . "

L: He held out his hand and John could not do
P: He held out his hand and John could not do

L: otherwise than take it . " Pleased to meet you ,
P: otherevise than take it . " Pleased to mect you ,

L: Commander , " he said . " Now what about that
P: Comander , " he said . " Now what about that

L: drink ? " John nodded - he could afford to buy
P: drink ? " John noded - he could aford to bey

L: one in return and he was lonely .
P: toms in return and he was lonely .

L: " For the sake of accuracy , " he said , " and I
P: " For the sake of acuracy ; " he said , ' and L kenow

L: know how you newspaper people value that commodity ! -
P: howr your newspaper value that comodity ! -

L: please don't address me as Commander . I 'm
P: please don't adres me as Comander . I'm

L: a Lieutenant-Commander . Perhaps we could
P: a Sientenant-Comander . Perhaps we could

L: drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You 're
P: drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You 're

L: absolutely right , " said Bawley , as he pushed over
P: absolutaly right : ' said Bawley , as he pushed over

L: his glass . " Fill it up , darling . Accuracy above
P: his glus . " Fil it up , darking . Acuracy aboue

L: all else . We pride ourselves about accuracy on
P: al lse . We pride ourselves about acuracy on

L: Ever known us bowl a wide about your Service ?
P: Ever known us boul a wide about your Bervice ?

L: Check and counter-check - nothing but the truth .
P: checte and wurt-chefe - nothing but the truth .

L: Somewhat embarrassing , what ? " " How can the
P: Bomewhat embarasiny , what ? " " How can the

L: truth be embarrassing ? " John sipped his double
P: truth be emburosing " John siped his double

L: gin with relish . It was his favourite brand ,
P: gin with rotish . It was his favourite brand .

L: he was on the verge of a new chapter in
P: he way on the verge of A new chapter in

L: his career , and his companion's attitude was
P: his carer , and his composion's atitude was

L: Life at home and in Bath had been a
P: Libe at home and in Bath had ben a

L: trifle too comfortable and humdrum .
P: trifle to comfortable and hundrun .

L: He 'd never before met a pressman and
P: He id never before met a presman and

L: found him curiously stimulating . " You 're a
P: found him curiously stimulating . " Jou re a

L: bit of a humorist , aren't you ? " said
P: bit of A Rumorist , arerit you ? ' said

L: Bawley . " The truth is usually very embarra-
P: Bawlay . " " The truth is susurly very embura-

L: ssing . You 're in submarines , aren't you ? "
P: sing . You're in submarines , aren't you ; '

L: " You know a great deal about me , "
P: " You fenow a great deal about mne '

L: " It 's my business . I 'll tell you more . You 're
P: "lt 's my businesy . Jiel tel you more . You re

L: going to take over command of Pericles . Am I
P: going to take over comand of Pericles . Am !

L: right ? " " Who told you ? " " Little bird .
P: right ? " " Who told you . " idizele bird .

L: Other half ? " John nodded . " On me . " Bawley
P: Other half ? " John noded . On me : Bawlay

L: shook his head . " All paid for by His Lordship , "
P: shok his herd . ' Ael paid for by this Lordship . "

L: he said . " Expense account . You 're a married
P: he said . " Expense acount . Youre a maried

L: man with a couple of kids . Can't go wasting
P: man with a couple of faids . Con't yo wasting

L: your substance on a complete stranger . Set
P: your substance on a complete stranger . But

L: John flushed . " I 'm not in need of charity . " " Come
P: John flushed . " I 'm not in mud of charity . " Come

L: off it , " said Bawley . " The proprietor of the Daily
P: ofb it , " sait Banley . " The propriter of the Paily

L: Courier knows what 's going on . If he doesn't mind ,
P: Canmer knows what 's going on . If he Loesnit mind

L: why should you ? " " I see . " John took the
P: why should you ? " " I se . " John tok the

L: refilled glass and looked over the rim at his
P: refiled glas and loked oer the rim at his

L: companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? "
P: companion . " Yyous want me to talk , is that it ? "

L: " You misjudge me , " said Bawley . " You have
P: " Yu misguidge me , " said Bauly . " You have

L: nothing to tell me , yet . But we 'll be meeting
P: nothing to tel mo yet . But we l be meting

L: again , no doubt , and then you will have .
P: agani , no doubst , and then you wil have

L: Regard this as a softening-up process , and
P: egard this as a seftining -up prous and

L: have dinner with me ? On His Lordship ,
P: have duiner with me . On this Lordship ,

L: of course . " " On one condition , " said John .
P: of course . " " On one condition , " said John .

L: " Tell me who the little bird was . " " Can't
P: "Pel me who the litle beird was . " " Can't

L: you guess ? Whose portrait appears regularly
P: you gues ? Wose portrait apears rgulaly ,

L: " You mean Munyard ? " " Sure . Very useful
P: you mean Dnyard ? " " Sure . Veny useful

L: contact , is our Robbie ; he gives us the gen and
P: cntact , is cur Robi ; he gives us the gen and

L: we give him the publicity . ' The Honourable
P: we guve hair the publicity . ' The Honeurable

L: " Robbie " and friend ' , what ? You know the
P: Robie " and friend , what ? You knew that

L: sort of thing . " " You 'll get nothing out of me , "
P: sot f thig . " ourl get nothing out of me ,"

L: said John , " but you can pay for my drinks
P: said Jchn , ' Bbut you can pay for my dinks

L: if you want to , as long as you keep off
P: of you want to , as lany as you hep of

L: " Good-oh ! One for the grill-room , darling , and
P: " God-chl. One for the guil-rom , dasting , and

L: tell George to bring in the 6carte du jour . "
P: tel Deage to bring in the bearte de jour . "

L: Bawley was a man of his word . He kept
P: Bawly was a mang his word . He kept

L: away from Service matters , was an excellent
P: away prom Sevice maters , was an excelent

L: host and a splendid raconteur . The evening
P: hest and a splendid racenteur . The evning

L: passed all too quickly . As they parted in
P: pased al to quickly . As they parted in

L: the vestibule the two men were well
P: the vestibule , the two men were wel

L: disposed towards each other .
P: disposed tawards one anther .

L: " Ever been to Fleet Street ? " asked Bawley .
P: " Ever ben to Flet Stret Pashed Bauly .

L: " You should . Next time you 're in Town
P: " You should ext time youre in Fowrn

L: give me a ring at this number and I 'll
P: give me a viny at this number and I ' I '

L: take you round the pubs where most
P: take you raind to the pubs wher most

L: of the work is done . " He held out a card .
P: of the worh is done . " He held out a card .

L: John took it and put it in his pocket .
P: ohn tok it and put it in his pocket .

L: " Thanks , " he said . " If ever my missus
P: " Thanks , " he said . " I f ever my misus

L: lets me off the chain I 'll take you
P: lets me of the chain I 'l take you

L: Ever been out in a submarine ? I 'll give
P: Ever ben out in a submarine ? I'l give

L: you a spin round one of these days , if you
P: you a spin round one of these days , if you

L: like . You could write it up . " Bawley made a face .
P: libe , You could write it up . " Bawley made a face .

L: " Not in Pericles , old man . " " Why not ? "
P: " Not in Pericles , old men . " " Why not ? "

L: " Better ask Robbie Munyard . " " What 's he been
P: " Beter ask Robic Mumyard . " " What 's he ben

L: saying ? " John was furious . The little squirt !
P: saying ? " yohn was furious . The litle squirt :

L: To go gassing to a newspaper man !
P: To go gasing to a newspaper men ?

L: " Look ! " he went on earnestly . " You 're not going
P: " Rok ! " he went on earmestly . ' You ' are not going

L: to write up Pericles in some way or other , are
P: to write up Pericles in some way or other , are

L: you ? " " What is there to write up ? " said
P: yon ? " " What is there to write up ? " said

L: Bawley . " There are forty-three submarines in
P: Bawley . " There are forty - thre sulmarines in

L: the Navy - why should I pick on Pericles ? "
P: the lary - why should y pick on Benikes ? "

L: John eyed him steadily . " It 's the Parcifal
P: John eyed him steadily . " It 's the Parcifal

L: business , isn't it ? " he said quietly .
P: busines , isn't it ? " he said quietly .

L: " I don't want it to happen again , " said Bawley -
P: " I don't want it to hapen again , " said Bawley-

L: " more so than ever since I met you . "
P: " more so than ever since I met you . "

L: " What did Munyard say ? " " The Snort - hull
P: " What did Munyard say ? " " The Iort - hul

L: fitting fractured . " " Supposing I was to tell you that
P: fiting fractured . " " Suposing I was to tel you that

L: we 've had Pericles' entire Snort equipment removed
P: we 've had Pericles" entive Snort equipment removed

L: and X-rayed and that it was as sound as a bell ? "
P: and 2-rayed and that it was as sound as a bel . "

L: " Munyard didn't tell me that . But I must confess
P: " Munyard didn't tel me that . But y must confes

L: I 'm relieved . But it still doesn't do away
P: I 'm relieved . But it stil doesn't do away

L: with the possibility of faulty design . " He held
P: with the posibility of faubty design . " He held

L: out his hand . " Maybe I will take a trip with you
P: out his hand . " Maybe y wil take a trip with you

L: one of these days , " he said . " In the meantime
P: one of these days , " he said . " In the meantine

L: I 'll tell my editor that the story 's a dead bird .
P: y 'l tel my editor that the story's a dead bird .

L: Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring -
P: blad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring-

L: any time - knock twice and ask for Bawley , what ? "
P: anytime - kenode twice and ask for Bawley , what ? "

L: " I don't know when that will be , " said John .
P: " I don't know when that wil be , " said Jolmn .

L: " I shall be busy for a while , cleaning up after
P: " I shal be busy for awhile , cleaning up after

L: Master bloody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines ,
P: Master blody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines ,

L: lying in pairs alongside the jetty at Fort Blockhouse .
P: lying in pairs alongside the yely at Ford Dlacthouse ,

L: Black and grimly businesslike they both looked and
P: Dlack and grimly businestile they both loked and

L: sounded , for all of them were rumbling as they
P: sounded , for al of them ware numbling as they

L: charged their electric batteries .
P: charged their electric bateries .

L: A light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhaust in
P: A light wind wagfted the smoke of diesel eshaust in

L: through the open windows of the Captain's house . It
P: through the open windows of the Captain's house . It

L: pervaded every room but neither Harry nor Madeleine
P: pervaded every rom but neither Hany nor Madeleine

L: Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over
P: Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over

L: a substantial breakfast . Although usually a very
P: a subtartial breafast . Although usualy a very

L: talkative lady Madeleine respected her husband's
P: talative lady Madeleine respected her husband's

L: silences , for she knew they betokened a worry of
P: silences , for she knew they betotened a wory of

L: There had been many such breakfasts lately since the
P: There had ben many such brealfasts lately since the

L: affair of Parsifal . Harry had lost a good deal of weight .
P: afair of Parsifal . Hary had lost a god deal of weight .

L: His normal placid and steady-going manner remained ,
P: His normal placid and steady-going manser remained ,

L: but she could see that it no longer came naturally .
P: but she could se that it no longer came naturaly .

L: It is the common lot of all Squadron Senior Officers
P: It is the comon lot of al Squadron Senior Oficers

L: to experience such catastrophes as the loss of a submarine ,
P: to experience suc catastrogphes as the los of a submurine ,

L: though in peace time these happenings are few and
P: though in peace time these haypenings are few and

L: This is the testing time for all . The affair blows up into
P: This is the testingtime for al . The afair blows up into

L: a national disaster and then when it is all over life
P: a national disaster and then when it is al over life

L: must continue as before . During this period the Captain
P: must contince as before . During this period the Captain

L: must present an unruffled appearance and carry on as
P: must present an unmufled apearance and cary on as

L: if nothing unusual has happened . Harry Turton had
P: of nothing unusual has hapened . Hary Furton had

L: written letters to the bereaved , had visited many in the
P: writen leters to the bereaved , had visited many in the

L: locality , had been interviewed by the Press , had driven
P: locality , had ben interviewed by the Pres , had driven

L: his surviving submarines a good deal harder than
P: his surviving submarines a god deal harder than

L: usual and in fact had applied all the usual specifics
P: usual and in fact had aplied al the usual specifics

L: He rode down to where I was waiting . I was
P: He rocde dain to where I was waitig . I was

L: thinking what a skill he had for reading
P: thinkig what a stil he had fas reacding

L: my mind . " This would be as good a place
P: mny mind . " This would he as goud a place

L: for a hold-up as any , " he said , reining in
P: for a nold-up as any , " he said , reintg in

L: near me . " Yes , " I said . " It 'll be here to-
P: new me . " Yes , " I said . " It 'l be nere to-

L: morrow as likely as not . " I paused . " Miss
P: morow as likely as not . " Ipamed . " Mins

L: Jeannie 'll be on that coach , Dan . "
P: Seanic 'l be on that couch , Dan . "

L: " Yes , " he said . " I know . " " No harm must come
P: " Yas , " he said . " Muow . " " No ham must come

L: to her , Dan . " " She 'll be all right . It 's the
P: to her , Dan . " " She 'l he dl ight . Hs the

L: men who 'll be after that coach I 'm interested
P: men who'l be after that coach I 'm inlerosted

L: in , Johnny . " " I know . But if lead starts
P: in , Johing . " " I know . But if lead Sterts

L: flying she might be in danger . " " That 's so .
P: fly's she mget he in dange . " " Thaty so .

L: But I reckon they 'll be too busy shooting at
P: But lredon they 'l he to bung choty at

L: us to bother with the coach and the folks
P: as to bother with the coach and the lolis

L: " Maybe , " I said . " But we 've got to remember
P: Mayhe , " I said . " But welve jot to rementer

L: that girl all the time , Dan . I feel kind
P: that jirl al the tine , pan . I bel kind

L: of responsible for her . " " Of course , " he said ,
P: of responshle for ner . " " Of couse , " he said ,

L: giving me one of his strange looks . Then he
P: ging me one of his waye lods . Then he

L: turned the conversation . " Let 's ride over
P: tuned the comersation . " Let) vide uber

L: and have a look at the mining camp .
P: and have a lok at the ming comp .

L: After all it 's them we 're supposed to be
P: After al its them weke supored to be

L: working for , as well as the townsfolk and
P: wering for , as wel as the tonslolk and

L: With something of a start I remembered the
P: with sometins of a stcrt I remankered the

L: man who 'd brought us into this business .
P: man who'd brought us into this businens .

L: " Maybe you don't know about Appleton ,
P: a Nughe you dont know about Apleton ,

L: Dan ? " " Know what ? " " That he 's dead , "
P: ban ? " " know what ? " " That hey dad , "

L: I said . I watched him because I was always
P: I said . I walched him became I was alway

L: fascinated by the way he looked when you
P: fascinated by the way he loked when you

L: tried to surprise him . " Dead ? " he said . " Yes .
P: Eried to suprise him . " Pead ? " he said . " Yes ,

L: Dead . Shuffled out of the deck . Blasted
P: Dead . Shuled out of the chek . Blasred

L: down with a shotgun outside the Palace
P: doun with a shotgun outside the Palace

L: " Fenton or Somers , " he said . " Or the Town
P: " Fenton or Jomos , " he aid . " Or the roun

L: Marshal , " I added . His face was fixed ,
P: Marshal , ' I aded . His lace was fixed ,

L: unreadable as a rock . " Let 's get over to the
P: unceadable an a rocde . " lels got over to the

L: mining camp , " he said abruptly . He wheeled
P: mining camp , " he said abpupty . He wheled

L: his horse back off the trail and up the slope
P: his hose hack of the trail and up the degpe

L: leading to the ridge . I followed . From the
P: leading to the sidye . I Poloneds From the

L: top you could see something of the wild hill
P: top you could te something of the wild hil

L: country that lay all round Gilburg Crossing .
P: country that lay al crond gilbny croring .

L: The air was fresh and clear and you
P: The air was lresh and clear and yu

L: could see far over west and north for many
P: could se for west and north fur many

L: miles . The real high country of the Rockies
P: mles . The real high counly of the Rockies

L: lifted up in the distance like a pale water-
P: cifted up in the dstance lie a pale waler-

L: colour drawing . Between us and that lay
P: Colowr draning . Fetwen is and that lay

L: a vast stretch of hills , canyons , buttes and
P: a vast wrel of hils , canyons , bules and

L: " The mine-workings lie north of the town , "
P: The mine-worigs he noth of the toun , "

L: said Dan . " If we head west we ought to
P: said Dan . " If we head west we ought to

L: cut the trail leading from Gilburg to the north . "
P: cut the trail leadiyg brom gilby to the noth . "

L: So we swung west , making slow going over
P: So me swung west , making slow goig over

L: rough country , sliding on shale , climbing down
P: rough counly , sliding on shale , limbing dom

L: into draws , circling a big mesa by a
P: aite draws , arching a big uba by a

L: four or five mile valley , sandy-floored . It
P: fowr or live mile valy , sandy-loured . It

L: got hotter as the day wore on and we rested
P: gut haler as the day wre on and he rested

L: gratefully by a small creek where we watered
P: gratefuly by a smal cek where he watered

L: the horses and drank enough to cure our
P: the harges and dank eguough to cure ow

L: An hour's riding brought us to a trail that
P: An how's sidiyg brought us to a tail that

L: we figured would lead to the miners' camp .
P: the lgured would lead to the muery camp .

L: We turned north into it and after about four
P: We tuned noth into it and ulter about for

L: miles it led into a small canyon which
P: miles it led Inte a smul cangon which

L: opened out into a wide shallow draw .
P: opened ont into a mide shulow draw .

L: Here in a dried-up creek-bed we found
P: Htere in a driod-up crek-bed he lomel

L: the miners at work . They were scattered
P: the miners cof work . Thy were scalered

L: over a fairly wide area working singly or
P: over a fairly mide wea worling angy or

L: We didn't approach unchallenged . Just short
P: We cidut aproach unchalenget . Sut shot

L: of the diggings there was a roughly-built
P: of the cligsigs there was a roughly - bult

L: shack and as we got near someone inside bawled
P: shacke and as we got new soreore insicd banled

L: out , " If you come any closer , I 'll sure blow
P: und , " If yes come any closer , ' 'l sure blow

L: your whiskers off . " " Take it easy , mister , " I sang
P: your whiskers ( . " " Take it lory , miste , " Lay

L: out . " We don't aim to come any closer and we 've
P: out . " We don't aim to cone any closw and neive

L: got no whiskers so as you can see . Just you
P: gut no whioles so as you conre . Is you

L: go and tell Nick Dowd we 've come to talk
P: go and tel Nick Dowd we 've come to talk

L: to him about what happened last night . "
P: to hin cboct what hapered lost njht . '

L: " Oh , " said the unseen guard . He blew a
P: Gh , " said the unsen guard . He blew a

L: whistle then , loud and shrill . The gun barrel
P: uhatle then , lond and wil . The yun borel

L: peeking out through a hole in the shack never
P: peking out though a hole in the chack never

L: wavered . We sat our horses , waiting . " Looks as
P: wavered . We jut ou harses , waity . " Lovlis us

L: though they 're expecting trouble , " I said . " Where
P: though they 're expectiy trouble , " I said . " Where

L: there 's gold and women there 's always trouble , "
P: there ' gold and women there's ahwags trouble ,'

L: observed Dan , shifting about in his saddle . He
P: observed Ban , hilty about in his sudle . He

L: Mr. Copthorne knew a way round by the side
P: Mr. Copthome hnes a way round by the side

L: of the church where there was a small open
P: of the church where there was a smel open

L: outbuilding where the grave digger kept his spades
P: onthilding where the grave diger kept his spades

L: and forks and tidying up implements . It might
P: and fork and tidying up smplements . It might

L: be open . It was . He entered , and seated himself
P: be open . It was . He entered , and reated himself

L: in a huddle upon an upturned wheelbarrow .
P: in a hundle upon an rptumed whelbarom .

L: His curious headgear fell off . Strange things
P: this cunrious headgear fel of . Strange thing

L: were going on in his bewildered brain . When
P: were going on in his bemildered brain . When

L: a man was drowning and towards his last
P: a man was drowning and towards his lest

L: gasp it was scientifically supposed his whole
P: gap it was scientificaly suposed his whole

L: life came up before him in some cinematic
P: life came up befare hin in some airemetic

L: Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church
P: Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church #

L: outbuilding , but this was happening to him now . He
P: outbuilding . but this wns hapening to him now . He

L: saw himself as a sulky , ugly , malformed , repressed
P: saw himself as a sulty , ugly , malforned , represed

L: boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing
P: boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing

L: baptism according to the sect his parents belonged to .
P: buptism acording to the sect his pasents blouget to .

L: Walking out of the chapel later on . Continuing
P: Wolking out of the chapel later on Continuing

L: on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-
P: on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-

L: canery and corruption , the growth of the dea-
P: conery and coruption , the grouth of the cdea-

L: dly decadence and absorption in debase-
P: dly dexadence and absorption in debase-

L: ment and Satanic debauchery .
P: ment and Satanic debauchery .

L: He didn't know what to make of it , but it
P: He didn't know what to make of it , but it

L: was Mr. Copthorne all right . Perhaps he had
P: was Mr. Copthorne al right . Perhops he had

L: been attending some kind of fancy dress do
P: ben atending some kind of fancy dres do

L: in London . Very strange his eyes looked . Mad ,
P: in London . Very strange his eyes loked . Mad ,

L: hunted eyes , as if the poor fellow had rocks in
P: hunted eyes , as if the por felow had vocks in

L: his head , so the verger described afterwards .
P: his head , so the verger discribed afterwands .

L: " You 're very early about , sir , " he said , trying to
P: " You 've very early about , sir , he said , trying to

L: " Yes . I travelled down from London
P: ilfes . A trauled oloan fram denodan

L: as the dawn was breaking , and
P: asthe dain was beking , ound

L: the thought came to me I 'd like
P: the thought come to me Jid like

L: to take a look at the church . I 've
P: ta take a lok at theclwrcl . I ne

L: never been inside . Very remiss of
P: sever hea cinscle . Le remisof

L: me , " said Mr. Copthorne . The verger
P: me , " # hr. Coplame . Che ceger

L: led the way in . " The stained glass
P: led the way in . " The stainece glas

L: windows , sir , they date back to
P: wuindous , sir , they datebo to

L: the fourteenth century . "
P: the facnteneld centenae . "

L: There were few passengers on the plane and Gavin was
P: There were few pasengers on the plane and Gavin was

L: quickly through the customs . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl
P: quikly through the crstoms . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl

L: and her luggage had disappeared and they were alone
P: and her lugage had disapeared and they were alone

L: together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the
P: together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the

L: taxi . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin pressed her
P: tax : . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin presed her

L: hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the
P: hand and smiled . " I want to chreck up on the

L: Gay went out to the waiting
P: gay went out to the waiting

L: taxi , and then found that in
P: toxi , and then faund that in

L: the excitement of meeting
P: the excitement of meting

L: Gavin she had left her sun-
P: gevin she had left her sun-

L: glasses on the veranda . She
P: glases on the verauodse . She

L: went quickly back to fetch them .
P: went quickly bock to fetch them .

L: Gavin and the girl who had got
P: gavin and the girl who had got

L: off the plane with him were talking .
P: of the plane with him were talking .

L: He was writing something in his
P: He was writing something in his

L: pocket-book , with a sick feeling
P: poclet-bok , with a sick feling

L: of despair Gay knew that of course
P: of despair gay knew that of course

L: Gay , sitting opposite Gavin on the terrace could
P: Gay , siting oposite Gavin on the terace could

L: hardly believe that she was the same girl ,
P: handly behieive that sle was the same gixl ,

L: miserable , shy , who had sat at the little
P: miserable , shy , who had sat at the litle

L: table for the first time a few days ago .
P: table for the first lime a tew days ago .

L: Gavin raised his glass to her and smiled
P: gavin raised his glas to her and smiled

L: and Gay's heart turned over . " I 'd like
P: and gay's head turned over . " I 'd lhe

L: to do that . " Gavin drained his glass
P: to do that . " Gowin drained his glans

L: " And then we 'll go for a stroll along the
P: " And then we 'le go for a stral along the

L: beach . A moon like this mustn't be wasted . "
P: beach . A mon like this mustn't be wasted . "

L: He gestured towards the bay where the full
P: He gestured tawards the bay where the ful

L: moon was just rising over the rocks , then
P: mon was gurst rising over the rocks , then

L: laid his hand on hers . Gay smiled at him
P: laid his hand on ners . Gay suiled at hic

L: again , happy beyond belief , knowing that
P: again , napy beyond beief , unaving that

L: now Gavin was in love with her and her
P: now gavin was in cove with ner 8 her

L: only , yet remembering for a second the
P: Only , yet remembering for a second the

L: kisses she had seen him giving Elaine .
P: lises she had sen him giving Elaine .

L: All that was part of the past , she would put it behind her . She
P: Ol that was port of the past , she would put it behind her . She

L: would never be jealous again , would even take Larry's advice and
P: would never be fealousagain , would even take Lary 's advece and

L: look the other way if need be . " I say ! " Gavin was looking over her
P: lok the otherway if ned be . " I say . " Gavniwuas loking over her

L: shoulder . " That 's a pretty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Isn't she
P: shoulder . " that 's a prelty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Wan't she

L: lovely , she 's French , a very well known model I believe .
P: lovely , she's French , avery wel know model Ibelieve .

L: Gay , a little puzzled , went through
P: Ggay , a litle puzled , went through

L: to the bar . Doc and Lilyan were
P: to the bae . Doc and hilyom were

L: sitting just inside having coffee .
P: siting just inside having cofe .

L: " Come and join us and bring your
P: " Come and join us and bring youe

L: boy friend , " Doc called . " No , Doc ! "
P: boy fried , " D0 caled . " No , DoC ! "

L: Lilyan remonstrated . " They want to be
P: filyon remonsteated . " They want to be

L: alone . " " I 've booked a table at the
P: alone . " " I 've loked a table at the

L: tonight so come and join us if you
P: Aonight so come and join us if you

L: can't find a table for two . "
P: conit find a table fo two . "

L: The others were all dancing and
P: The othes were al dancing and

L: as Gay drew out a chair and sat
P: as fay chew out a chais and sot .

L: down Gavin , without a word , swept
P: cdown faven , without a word , swept

L: Simone on to the floor . " It doesn't mean
P: Simone on to the flox . ' At doesn't mean

L: anything , " Gay told herself desperately ,
P: aniything , " jay told heself desparately ,

L: trying to understand Gavin's point of
P: tying to endestand fowin point of

L: view and remembering the advice
P: view and remembuing the advice

L: that Larry had given her , while she
P: that Lang had given her , while she

L: felt wretched beyond words .
P: felt wretched beyound words .

L: Gay thanked him and walked out on to
P: Gay thanked him and waled out on to

L: the terrace thinking that perhaps Gavin
P: the terace Kinking that perhaps gavin

L: had bought a drink and taken it outside .
P: had bought a drink and taken it outside .

L: She looked round scanning the tables ,
P: She loked round scoming the tables ,

L: then caught her breath , a cold hand
P: then caughther bseate , a cold haud

L: seeming to clutch her heart . Gavin was
P: sueming to chutch hw heasd . gowin was

L: seated at a small table in a shadowy
P: seated of a smal table in a sladowy

L: corner talking animatedly to Simone .
P: comer taking ouimuatedly to simone .

L: As Gay watched he offered the girl a
P: as gay wasched he ofered the girl a

L: cigarette and lit it , his hands cupping
P: cigarete and lit it , his lauds cuping

L: hers in an intimate way .
P: ewos in an ntineate way

L: Gay stood irresolute for a moment , half
P: Goy stod iresolute for a momut , hoep

L: decided to go back and join Lilyan and
P: decided to go back and join lieyan and

L: Doc , while she wanted to do no more than
P: OC , while she wanted to do no more thou

L: run upstairs to her room , knowing that
P: ven upstairs to her rom , luowing that

L: Gavin although he had told her that he
P: gowin although he had fold he that he

L: loved her , was already flirting with a girl
P: lovedher , was already feirzing wite a girl

L: that he had only met a few minutes before .
P: tearbe lod only met a few mimentes before .

L: Larry's advice flashed through her mind ,
P: cory's aidvice feashed through ber mind ,

L: but she turned away , giving a little
P: but she turised away , giving a lite

L: gesture of hopelessness , knowing that her
P: gesture of hopelesmes , kowing thatler

L: His behaviour was not only boorish and in the worst of
P: His behaviour was not only borish and the worst of

L: taste but it was unkind beyond words . She fumbled
P: taste but it was unkind beyond words . The fumbled

L: with the cigarette packet which lay on the table
P: with the cigarete packet which lay on the table

L: not wanting to smoke but needing some action
P: not wanting to smoke but neding come action

L: to help her control her feelings . " Come and
P: to help her control her faling . . " Come and

L: dance , " Doc's cheery voice came as a
P: dance , ' Do's chery voice came as a

L: lifeline and Gay got up quickly , mana-
P: lifeline and bay got up quickely , mana-

L: As he swung her on to the floor Gay saw Gavin
P: As he swung her on to the for Gay sow havin

L: and Simone go through the doorway that led
P: and simone go through the dorway that ted

L: down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a
P: down to the beack . Gay closed her eyes for a

L: moment in disgust . She was fully aware that Gavin
P: moment in disgust . She was fuly awsare that Carin

L: would make love to the French girl on the sands ,
P: would make lose to the French girl on the sands ,

L: and no doubt he would come back soon and
P: and no dovst he would comc back son and

L: after Simone had left expect her to accept his
P: after Simone had left expect her to acept his

L: kisses on the way back to the hotel .
P: lrises on the way back to the hakel .

L: Sentence Database P02-109
P: cto 3tb POR-10

L: " And that 's the man whom you have been eating your
P: gyu

L: heart out over ? " Doc nodded towards the door . " You
P: heat out over ? " Doc noded towards the dor . " You

L: may consider him a man , I would say he was a
P: may consider him a man , I would say he was a

L: mentally adolescent cad . " " Oh , Doc ... " Gay protested
P: mentaly adodescent cad . " " Gh , Doc . . " Gay protested

L: weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I 've only met him
P: weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I 've only met him

L: today but I think I can safely say that I know
P: today but I think I can sately say that I know

L: him a great deal better than you do . "
P: him a great deal beter than you do . "

L: Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up
P: Poc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up

L: Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing
P: Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing

L: yourself away on a chap like that . You 're a
P: yourself away on a chap like that . You've a

L: fine girl , intelligent , and pretty , and I had
P: fine girl , inteligent , and prety , and I had

L: thought you were sensible too . Don't
P: thought you were sensible to . Don't

L: make a fool of yourself over someone
P: make a fol of yourself over someone

L: who doesn't care two jots for your feelings .
P: who doesn't care two jots for your feling . .

L: If he behaves like this now what is your
P: If he behaves like this now what is your

L: married life going to be like ?
P: maried life going to be like ?

L: Hell . " Doc answered for her . " Just Hell . Never able to
P: fl . " Dor answered for her . " Just Wel . Never able to

L: trust him out of your sight and having to put on
P: trust him out of your sight and having to put on

L: a brave face and pretend that you don't mind
P: a brave face and pretend that you dout mind

L: whenever he flirts with another woman . He will
P: Whenever he flints with another soman the wil

L: you know , always , and you aren't the type
P: you know , always , and you aren't the typse

L: who is tough enough to change him . "
P: who is tough cnough to change him . "

L: Gay nodded . " I know that you 're right Doc , I think
P: yay noded . " I knowo that you re right Dor , I think

L: now that I do realise that , and in any case , " she added
P: noter that I do realise that , and in any case , she aded

L: a little sadly , " if I did change Gavin , he wouldn't
P: a litle sadly , " if I did change Gavin , he woulds't

L: be the same , if you know what I mean . " " You sound
P: be the same , if you knoto rohat I mean . " You sound

L: like Alice in Wonderland , " Doc gently mocked her , " and
P: like lice in Monderland , ' Dor gently mocked her , and

L: I 'm glad you 're beginning to see that you 're wasting
P: I 'm glad youre begining to se that youre rwasting

L: Now let him go and you won't have to wait
P: Now let him go and you won't have to wait

L: long for the right man for you to come
P: long for the right man for you to come

L: along . If I was thirty years younger and weren't
P: along . If I was thirty years younger and weren't

L: married to the sweetest wife in the world
P: maried to the swetest wife in the world

L: I 'd marry you myself . " Gay laughed , Doc was
P: I 'd mary you myself . " Cay laughed , Doc was

L: so kind and nice and she hoped that one
P: so kind and nice and she hoped that one

L: day she would be able to see the situation
P: day she would be able to se the situation

L: as it obviously appeared to everyone else .
P: as it obviously apeared to everyone else .

L: Doc asked Lilyan to dance and once
P: Dor asked Silgan to dance and ance

L: again Gay found herself alone at the table
P: again Gay faund heself alone at the tabl

L: feeling self-conscious and awkward , sure that
P: foeling self-conscions and autwand , sme that

L: people were talking about the way Gavin
P: peaple were talking about the way Gauin

L: was behaving since they had seen them
P: twas behaving since they had sen them

L: dining together . She opened her bag
P: elining togeter . She ogened he bag

L: to get out her compact and saw Grace's
P: its get sut he conpact and saw Grace's

L: letter . She drew it out and opened it ,
P: leter . She chew it sut and opened it ,

L: glad to be able to occupy herself .
P: glad to be able is ocusy heself .

L: " So glad that you are having such a lovely time , dearie , "
P: " So glad that you are having such a fovely time , dearie , "

L: it ran . " Your cards are lovely . I rang up Miss Harland
P: it man . " Youn cands are fovely . I nang up Mis Hanland #

L: and have been over to sit with her father and do what
P: and have ben oven to sit with hen father and do what

L: I can for him so that she can get out to do her shopping .
P: I can for him so that she can get out to do henr shoping .

L: He 's getting on well but is pretty helpless still with his
P: He's geting on wel but is pratly helples skilf with his

L: No other news except that Elaine is engaged
P: No other news except Claine is engayed

L: and going to marry a foreigner ... "
P: and going to marty a forcigmnr . . "

L: Gay read the rest of the letter then put
P: Gay read the rest of the Leter put

L: it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged ,
P: it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged ,

L: to the man she had spent so much time
P: to the man she had spent so much timse

L: with at her party . That was why
P: with at her party . That was why

L: Gavin had come back to her .
P: Banin had come back to her .

L: Everything was quite clear now , and to
P: Everyting was quite clear now , and to

L: her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak ,
P: her own suxprise bay felt no heartbreak ,

L: rather a sense of relief now that she
P: rather a sense of relief now thad she

L: knew why Gavin had come to see
P: knew why bavin had comne to se

L: Because she was second best . The others came back
P: Because she was second best . The others came back To

L: to the table , all of them making a fuss of her and at once
P: The table , al of them makis a fus of hor and al onen she

L: she felt happier . Gay loved them for their warm sympathy ,
P: Fert hapior . Bay bourd them For their warn sympaty ,

L: knowing that they were real friends , even if they were new ones .
P: knowing that they wter real , ewen its they were new ones

L: " That is a pretty dress , " Lilyan commented , obviously sensing
P: " That is a protly dres ' , Lilpan comented , obuiouty seaing

L: Gay's distress and in a way that Doc , as a man , could not
P: Bays distrers and in a way that Doc , as a mon , could not

L: understand , knowing that Gay was as much ashamed
P: understond , knowing That Goy was as much ashamed

L: for Gavin at the way he was behaving as she
P: For gain at the way he was Behaving as she

L: " I made it myself , " Gay tried to speak
P: I I made it myself , " Gay tried to speak

L: Diana Wills often sat on the brand
P: Piana Wils often sat on the brand

L: new seat outside the hospital
P: men seat onkside the nospito !

L: gates and thought vagrant
P: gotas and thought vagrant

L: thoughts . At one time she had
P: thoughts . At one time she had

L: watched the workmen constructing
P: natched the narkmen conshncting

L: the roundabout , which was
P: the round-abont , which was p

L: to put St. John's Casualty Department
P: to put St. John's Casnalty Department

L: out of operation - in theory , at
P: ant of opuation - in theany , at

L: least . She would think of her-
P: least . She mould think of han-

L: self as a stranger in these parts
P: self as a shanger in these parks

L: studying these cross-roads . Which
P: stndying these crosrads . Which

L: " If I were a tramp I would simply blow a
P: It I were a tramp I would simpl blow a

L: feather , " she decided , rather envying the gentle-
P: feather , " she decided , rather enying the sentle-

L: man of the road his freedom of decision , and
P: man of the rod his fredom of decision , and

L: wishing life would sometimes allow serious-minded
P: wishing like would sometines alow serions-mindet

L: women doctors to blow a feather and follow its
P: women dectors to blow a feather and Falow its

L: airy directions accordingly . " If I were needing a
P: airy dorections acordongly . " If I were nedong a

L: job I 'd go to London , of course , " she went on .
P: job I 'd so to Condon , of course , " she went on .

L: " There are all sorts of wonder-
P: " There are al sorts of wonder-

L: ful jobs in London and I could
P: ful jobs in Condon and I could

L: take my pick , whereas in Yarmouth
P: talve my picer , whereas in Yamouth

L: one has to know something about fishing
P: one has to know something about firking

L: and in Liverpool they 'd want sea-farers .
P: and in liverpol they 'd want sea-farers .

L: I don't think I 'd go to Edinburgh un-
P: I don't thir I 'f go to Edinburgh un-

L: less I was a Scot and wanting to get
P: Wes I was a scot and wanting to get

L: home , or perhaps a student studying to
P: home , or perhaps a student studying to

L: be a doctor , and I already know
P: be a cloctor , and I already know

L: She was engaged to Nigel , had been for two years .
P: She was engaged to Nigel , had ben for two years .

L: Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get married " ,
P: Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get maried " ,

L: and then all was wonderful , and perhaps it had only been
P: and then al was wonderpue , and perhaps it had only ben

L: a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last
P: a seip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last

L: evening , " If we get married , old girl , you 'll have to stop
P: evering , " If we get maried , old gie , you l have to stop

L: She couldn't remember what they had been talking about or
P: the couldn't remumber what they had ben talkily about o

L: which ' lark ' she would have to stop , only that significant tiny
P: which " lark she would have to prp , only that siprificant ting

L: word shouted into her very soul a horn of warning , and
P: ward suanted into her very sout a har of warning , and

L: with it was coupled a disembodied fragment of information ,
P: with it was coupled a disubodied frayment of infrcuation ,

L: which now took on an ominous significance : Nigel had been
P: which now # tok an ominons squificance : Nigh had ben

L: seen in Farlingham on an occasion he had sworn he had
P: sen in Faliugham on an ocasion he had swan he had

L: been standing in for Luke Parsons at his surgery in
P: ben standing in for lnke Parsons at his surgery in

L: Now Nigel had every right to go where he
P: Now Migel had everg right to go where he

L: liked during his off-duty periods
P: liked # during his of-Auty periods

L: when she was not free ; this much they had
P: when she was not fre ; this much they had

L: conceded one to the other . They rarely
P: conceded one to the other . They rarely

L: found they were off duty together , and
P: found they were of duty together , and

L: the situation would have been intolerable
P: the situation would have sen intoleradle

L: had there not been some give and take
P: had there not ben given and take

L: about their relationship . So when Nigel
P: about their relationship . So when Migel

L: had told her about taking Luke's
P: had told her about Laking Cukce's

L: evening surgery she had said ,
P: evening surgery she had said ,

L: " Bless you ! I hope Luke is suitably grateful , darling . " " Oh , well , "
P: " # Non ! I tore luke is suiraous Gxmperne , Iravins . " " Ot, wan ,"

L: he shrugged diffidently , " I like the work . One gets plenty
P: #E SRmCA SiFDATW , " I liE TE work . One # #

L: of variety and it 's a change . " Nigel was the hospital's
P: of US ANO S AWNE . " MTaL NRT TE Hospirme's

L: Junior Medical Officer . " You won't be free about nine , I
P: Juwroe morEL OFTCER . " Yon NON'T IE # aout nhr , '

L: suppose , to meet me for supper somewhere ? " she had
P: JapTOrE , to NEAT mE FoR Supe SmouToE ? " SO KO

L: " Hardly likely , my sweet . Luke's surgery goes on for
P: " Hardly likely , my swet . Luke's surgery goes on for

L: hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even
P: hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even

L: though they 're standing on one another's toes ,
P: though they've standing on one another's toes ,

L: I 've got to see 'em . If I am free , though ,
P: I ve yot to se'em . It I am fre , though ,

L: I 'll give you a ring , O.K. ? " O.K. , " she had
P: I l give you a ring . G. R. T " O.K. , " she had

L: replied readily . So how could Nigel have
P: veplied readily . So how could Nigel have

L: been at the Load of Trouble roadhouse ,
P: ben at the Load of Trouble road house ,

L: dancing with a blonde at eight-thirty that
P: dancing with a blonde at eight thisty that

L: " No , " she told Phil Gubbins , a junior
P: " No , " she told Phil Gublins , a junior

L: houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you saw ,
P: houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you sow ,

L: my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway .
P: my lad . " " It was Nigel 's car , anyway .

L: NUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car
P: WUT MN. " . He probably loaned his car

L: to somebody , Phil . He 's always doing that . "
P: to somebody . Phil . He 's always doing that . "

L: Young Gubbins shrugged . " I didn't see his
P: Young Gubin shruged . " I dicla't se his

L: face , Di , but it certainly looked like
P: face , Di , but it certainly loked like

L: Nigel from the back . D.j. and all .
P: Nigel from the back . D. F- andal .

L: Of course such as I couldn't afford
P: of course such as Iy couldn't aford

L: to go into the Load of Trouble . "
P: to go into the Load of Brouble . "

L: But after that slight slip of the tongue on Nigel's part she had
P: But after thad slight sip of the tongue on Nigel's past she had

L: realised it was important enough for her to have remembered , and it
P: realised it was important enough for her to have remembered , and it

L: was as though a red mist veiled her usually clear sight and
P: was as though a red mist veiled her usualy cloar sight and

L: made her think there was an abyss immediately ahead .
P: made her think these was an abys imediately ahead .

L: " Nigel , " she had besought him , " you know that evening
P: " Nigel , " she had besought him , " you lnow that evening

L: you took Luke Parson's surgery and there was a woman
P: you toch lake Parson's surgery and there was a woman

L: with a cyst on her ear ... ? "
P: with a ayst on har ear . . . Th

L: " 5Ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kissed her on the
P: " s ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kised her on the

L: mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge .
P: mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge .

L: " What about it , my sweet ? " " Well , " she laughed
P: ' What about it , amy swet ? " " Wel , " she laughed

L: suddenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid
P: sudonly in an upsurging of relef , " that stupid

L: Gubbins boy thought he saw you at the Load of Trouble .
P: gultins boy thought he saw you at the doad of Trousle .

L: With a blonde , too . Imagine ! " Nigel was frowning . He
P: With a blonde , to . Imagine ! " nigcl was frowning . He

L: looked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly
P: loked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly

L: " Gubbins ? Gubbins ? " he fretted . " Who 's he ? "
P: " Aubins ? Lubins ? " he fretleor . ' Who's he ?-

L: Though Diana knew the name of every
P: Though Diane knen the nane of every

L: member of the staff , distinguished or not ,
P: member of the stafl , distinguished or not

L: Nigel often had to think hard to sort
P: Misel often had to trink hard to sort

L: them out . " He 's the carrotty lad , isn't he ? "
P: them out . " Hte 's the conotly lace , is't ke ? "

L: he now demanded . " What was he
P: he now denanced . " What was he

L: doing at the Load of Trouble ? "
P: oloing at the Loae of Iroubke ? . "

L: I 'm going with a shooting party . What else can I do
P: Iim going with a shoting paty . What else can l do

L: at this time of year ? I can't ask you up because it 's
P: at this time of year ? I can't ask youp because it 's

L: a strictly stag affair . " " I know . I didn't expect ... " " Well ,
P: a strictly slay altai . " " I know . Ididn't expect . " Hel ,

L: don't keep hinting , then . You wish you could
P: don't kep hinting , then . yon wish you could

L: come with me ; you hope I 'll miss you ; you
P: come with me ; you hope I 'l mis you ; you

L: can't imagine the hospital without me for
P: can't magine the hospital wthout me for

L: three weeks , etcetera , etcetera ! "
P: thre weks , etcelesa , etcelera ! ' '

L: Her figure was small and exquisite , like a schoolgirl's still , and
P: Her figure was smal and exquisite , like a scholgirl's stil , and

L: he admired her legs , which the male sex were inclined to
P: he admired her legs , which the male sox were indined to

L: regard first . " I would mind if you didn't " he told her
P: regard first . " I would mind if you didn't " he told her

L: grimly , and tugged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're
P: grimly , and tuaged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're

L: right , pet . I do need this leave . I 'm bad-tempered and
P: right , pet . I do ned this leave . I 'm bad-tempered and

L: broody and going out with brash blondes . I don't deserve
P: brody and going out with brash blandes . I don't deseive

L: " Darling ! " her voiced caressed him . " Moments like this
P: arking " her voiced caresed him . " Homents like this

L: make all the waiting worth while . When we 're
P: make al the waiting worth while . When we re

L: married we won't have these explosions of emotion ,
P: maried we won't have these explesions of enotan ,

L: will we ? " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish we
P: wil we " " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish use

L: were married , Di . Like a patient wishes his operation
P: were maried , Dis like a patent wohes his operation

L: was over . " Again her laughter trilled . " Marriage
P: was over . " Again her laughter trilel . " Mariage

L: isn't as bad as an operation , Nigel ! "
P: But as bed as an peration , Nigel ! '

L: " Isn't it ? " he rose and smoothed himself
P: " fsut it ! " he rose and smothed himself

L: down . " Ask any bridegroom-to-be . Anyhow ,
P: down . " Ash any bridegroutobe . Anybow ,

L: that particular problem isn't looming at
P: that particular problem isn't loming at

L: the moment , thank God ! " Problem ... ?
P: the moment , thanh God ? " Problemn . ? .

L: looming ... ? " Are we discussing a marriage
P: loming . . . " Are ve discusing a meriage

L: or a burial ? " she asked , hardly believing
P: or a burial ! " she asked , hardly believing

L: he could be serious . " Surely marrying
P: he could be serious . " Surely marying

L: me isn't going to be all that bad ?
P: me isn't going to be al that bad ?

L: If it is - " she laughed uncertainly - " you can have
P: I it is. - " she laughed uncertainly - " you can have

L: your ring back . " She loosened the half-hoop of
P: your ring back . ' She losened the haly - hop of

L: diamonds on her left hand third finger and held it
P: diamonds on ner byt hand third yinger and held it

L: out to him , still playfully . Without a glimmer
P: out to him , stil playpy . Witheut a ghmer

L: of amusement in his own eyes , however , he took
P: of amusement in his own eyes , nowever , he toh

L: it , looking moodily beyond her . " Perhaps it 's as
P: it , loking modily beyand Mer . " Perhaps it 's as

L: well if you don't wear it for a bit , Di , " he
P: wel if you don't wear it for a bit , Dr , " he

L: " But I want it ! " she protested . " It 's my ring . "
P: " But I want it seh protested . It 's my ring . "

L: " You just gave it back to me . " " I
P: " Your gest gave it lack to me " " I

L: didn't ! I was joking . You know I was
P: diatn't ! . I was joting . you knowt was

L: joking , Nigel . " " You shouldn't joke
P: foking , Misel " " You shouldn t jote

L: about serious things like engagements . "
P: about serious things like engagumenits . "

L: " Don't be such a baby ! " They were going
P: " Don't be such a baby ; " They were goings

L: to have an open quarrel
P: to have , an opaen quarmet any

L: any minute , and she knew it .
P: vinte , and she lew it .

L: Almost in desperation she appealed , " Will you meet
P: Almost in desperation she apeated , " Wil you met

L: me at the gate , four o'clock tomorrow ? " " Why ? " he
P: me at the gate , four Oclock tomorow ? " " Why ? " he

L: enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring
P: enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring

L: me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I 'll see , "
P: me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I 'l ser ,

L: he told her , and suddenly seized her in an embrace
P: he told her , and sudenly seized her in an embrace

L: which really hurt . " Without your ring it 's just like
P: which realy hurk . " Without your ring it 's just like

L: kissing somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,
P: kising somebody else's gir l , " he decided wickedly ,

L: and kissed her again , somewhat startled to
P: and Kised her again , some what statled to

L: receive a sharp slap for his pains .
P: received a shorp slap for his pains .

L: " If I were somebody else's girl that 's
P: " If I were somebody efse's girt that 's ,

L: what you 'd get , " she flashed at him , and
P: what you 'd get , " she flashed at him , and

L: so had left him , on her dignity and not
P: so hat Reft him , on her dignity and not

L: seeing the look of admiration and revelation
P: seing the lok of admiration and revelation

L: which had followed her slim young figure
P: which had fopRowed her slim young figure

L: out of his sight . " Mine , " Nigel Lester had
P: out of his sight . " Mine . " Nigel Lestor had

L: decided with a sigh of satisfaction , and
P: decided with a sigh of scafis faction and

L: then regarded the ring which he retrieved
P: A then regarded the ring which he retrieved

L: from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded ,
P: from his pocket . ' At a price , " he concluded ,

L: with some bitterness .
P: with soma biterwos .

L: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now
P: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now

L: Diana was trailing up the gravelled drive to the hospital
P: Diana was trailing up the graveled drive to the hosptal

L: alone . Of course one couldn't say for certain when a
P: alone . Of course one couldn't say for certain when a

L: doctor would be free during the day ; tea was served
P: doctor would be fre duving the day ; tea was served

L: from four until five-thirty in the residents' common-
P: from four until five-thirty in the residents ' comon-

L: room , which proved the elasticity of medical commitments .
P: rom , which proved the elasticvry of medical comitments .

L: Something had cropped up which required Nigel's attention ,
P: Something had croped up which required Nigel's atention ,

L: she was convinced , or he would have granted her small request
P: she was convinced ,or would have granted her smal negrest

L: Sentence Database P03-189
P: intence Datahase PO3-189

L: They often had such a rendezvous , for
P: They aften had such a rendegraus , for

L: there was just time to smoke a cigarette ,
P: there was jist time to smake a cigarethe ,

L: if one walked slowly , between road and
P: if ane bralked slaonly , betrwen road and

L: His mouth hardened , his eyes became
P: Hhis month hardened , his eyes became

L: steely . ' I see . ' Scorn lashed his
P: stely . iF se . " Scorn lastied his

L: words . ' I wonder you dared trust
P: words . ' I wondr you dared trust

L: him to my care . ' ' Nicholas - '
P: limn to my C are ' ' Nicbolas - "

L: ' Well ! At least I know the truth .
P: Wel ! At least I know the truth .

L: Truth ! ' His gaze held hers
P: Truth l . ' Hhis gage held hers

L: masterfully . ' You wanted it so
P: mastrfuly . ' Yon wanted it so

L: badly - at any price . I hope
P: badly " " at any prace . I hope

L: you are satisfied . '
P: you are satisfied .

L: And as he spoke , the thought
P: And as hepoke , the thought

L: of Philip lying in the other
P: of Philip lyin , in the other

L: room filled him with a re-
P: romfled Mim with a re-

L: vulsion that was homicidal .
P: Voulation that washomocidal .

L: Even in that , his hands were
P: Even in that istand ere

L: tied . He dare not precipitate
P: tied . Hle doure not precupitate

L: what might well be another
P: what might wel beanothes

L: coronary . And in that second
P: Coronary . And inthat secod

L: he put back his professional
P: he gut ack lisprofesional

L: mantle , and said with such
P: mantle , and saind with such

L: icy politeness , such withdrawn
P: vcy politenes , uch withdrour

L: ' I will leave you the necessary pre-
P: ' I wil leave you thnecesary pre-

L: scription for the sedatives . You
P: scriptions for the sedatives . you

L: will contact your new doctor
P: wil Contact yournen do ar

L: when you reach your parents'
P: when youreach nou parents'

L: house . ' She watched him flick
P: Mane " She watched bim flick

L: his fountain-pen from his
P: lis fountain-pen from his

L: waistcoat pocket , take out
P: wainstcoat pocket , take out

L: his # prescription pad , and
P: hi# prescigtopad , and

L: # scribble on it . Then ,
P: #scrible on it . Then ,

L: with a gesture she knew so well ,
P: with a gesture she knew so wel ,

L: he tore off the leaflet and
P: be tase of the leaflert and

L: ' Good-bye , Sandra , ' he said
P: God-bye , Sandra , he sand

L: with a deadly finality . Watching
P: with a deadly finality . Natoling

L: him go , unable to speak , she
P: him go , unableto sgeak , she

L: felt that part of her was leaving
P: felt that pat of her was leaving

L: him . She couldn't hate him ...
P: him . She Coulalu't hate him . .

L: If only he would have con-
P: It only he would have con-

L: fided in her , given some expla-
P: fided her , given some expla-

L: nation . Now there was no-
P: nation. low there was no-

L: thing - not even friendship .
P: fhing - not even frienhlip .

L: She went back to Philip . But
P: the went back to Philp . But

L: all she could hear were Nicholas's
P: al she could hear were Nicholan's

L: words : ' I love you - oh , you
P: words : I love you -ch , you

L: know that well enough . '
P: know that welenough . '

L: Love . She revolted against
P: dove . She revolted agant

L: the word . Nicholas , Philip ...
P: the word . Micholars , Philip .

L: where was happiness , or
P: where was hapins , or

L: peace of mind ? Philip put out
P: peace of minal ? Philip put out

L: a hand and grasped hers .
P: a land and grasped hers .

L: He needed her . She would find
P: Henedeal her . She would finl

L: solace in that fact at least .
P: Dolance in that fact at leart .

L: She had her truth . How much had built
P: Thehad her truth . Howmuch had boiult

L: up from that first ideal , and how
P: up from that first ideal , and how

L: little joy , or satisfaction , it had
P: litle joy , or satinsfactionjct had

L: given her . ' I 'm sorry , darling . '
P: grives her . Imnsory darly . '

L: He looked nervous . It had been
P: He focked nerveu It'had ben

L: hell lying there , knowing she was
P: hel lying there , knowing she was

L: talking to Nicholas and wondering
P: talking to Nicholas and wonding

L: what they were saying . Sandra
P: what they were saying . Lauadra

L: said instinctively : ' I told him
P: Dand ustinctively : " I tolal him

L: I knew he was responsible for
P: I knew he was responsatle for

L: Her eyes darkened in torment . ' Are
P: Hereyes darkened intorment . Are

L: you sure that she was telling the truth ? '
P: you sure that she was teling thetruth : "

L: ' Good heavens , darling , why on earth
P: ' God heavens , darling , why onearth

L: should she lie ? Besides , it wasn't just
P: should she Mie ?. Beside , it wasn't jinl

L: her word . There was enough evidence ,
P: her ward . There was enagh evidence ,

L: no matter how one might want to
P: no matfer how one might want to

L: disbelieve the facts . ' Elation
P: dis believ the facts . Elation

L: touched him after the cold wind
P: touched him after the cold wind

L: of suspense . ' It will be interesting
P: of suspense . ' It wil be interesting

L: to see what comes out at the inquest .
P: to se what comes out at the ingues

L: What his story will be . I reckon
P: What his story wil be . I recton

L: he 'll confine himself to the nervous
P: he 'l confine hmself to the nervous

L: origin of her recent illness . His notes
P: origin of her recent ilnes . His notes

L: will be truthful , but what he leaves out
P: wil be touthful , but what he leaves out

L: will matter most . ' Strange how just
P: wil mater most . ' Stoange haw jonry

L: then Philip was so certain that Nicholas
P: then Philip waso cetain that Wicholas

L: would never betray him . He loved
P: would never betray him . He loved

L: Sandra too deeply to ruin her
P: Sanalra to wor deply to rmin her

L: future happiness . Had ever circum-
P: future hapines . Had evercir eum-

L: stances conspired so cunningly ?
P: stances conspindso cuncingly,

L: Philip's spirits soared .
P: Philip's pinit soared .

L: He was better ; he had made a
P: He was beter ; he had made a

L: miraculous recovery and Sandra would
P: mraculous recovery and fandra would

L: soon be his wife . The Devil , he thought ,
P: son bek wife The Peril , be thorgct ,

L: certainly looked after his own .
P: Certainly loked after his own

L: Something in Sandra's attitude struck
P: Something in Fandra's aticule struch
