L: either of two ways, by usurping advantages that do not
P: either of two ways , by usurping advantages that do not

L: belong to him; or by declining burthens that do belong to
P: belong to him ; or by declining burthens that do belong to

L: him.
P: him .

L: There are two ways in which a man may be said
P: There are two ways in which a man may be said

L: to [apply] for such information: an active way and a passive: by
P: to aply for such information : an active way and a posive , by

L: Economy
P: Rotir

L: 7
P: 1

L: II Collins
P: Alerlng

L: which so alarmed and terrified them, that they instantly fled,
P: " which so alarmed and terified them , that they instantly fled ,

L: leaving behind them their spears, &c. and about 20 bushels of
P: " leaving behind them their spears , &c : and about do bushels of

L: Indian-corn which they had stolen.
P: Indien-con which they had stolen .

L: "It was distressing to observe that every endeavour to
P: It was distresing to observe , that every encleavous to

L: "civilize these people proved fruitless. Although they lived among
P: " civiling these people proved fruitley . Although they lived among

L: "the inhabitants of the different settlements, were kindly treated,
P: " the inhabitants of the diferent setlements , were kindly treated ,

L: "fed, and often cloathed, yet they were never found to profess the
P: " fed , and often cloathed , yet they were never found to poses the

L: "smallest degree of gratitude for such favours. Even Even Ben-nil-long
P: " smalest degre of gratitude for such favours . Ewe Even Benibling

L: "was as destitute of this quality as the most ignorant of his coun-
P: " was as destitute of this quality as the most ignorant of his com-

L: -"trymen. "It is an extraordinary fact, that even their children, who
P: " trymen . It is an extraordinary fact , that even their children , who

L: "had been bred among the white people, and who, from being
P: " had ben bred among the while people , and who , from being

L: "accustomed to follow their manner of living, might have been
P: " acustiomed to folow thus maner of living , might have ben

L: "supposed to ill relish the life of their parents, when grown up,
P: " suprsed to il oclish the life of their parents , when goroun uh ,

L: "have quitted their comfortable abodes, females as well as males,
P: " have quited their comfortable aboder , females as wel as males ,

L: "and taken to the same savage mode of living, where the sup-
P: " and taken to the same savaly mode of living , when the sup-

L: -"ply "of food was often precarious, their comforts not to be called
P: - ply of fod was often precarious , their comforts not to be caled

L: "such, and their lives perpetually in danger. As a proof of the little
P: such , and their lives perpectualy in danger . As a prof of the litle

L: "personal safety which they enjoyed, a young young woman, the
P: " personal safly which they enjoyed , a yoerg young woman , the

L: "wife of a man named Ye-ra-ni-be , both of whom had been
P: " wife of a man named Ge-ra-nibe , both of whom had ben

L: "brought up in the settlement from their childhood, was cruelly
P: "brought up in the setlement from their chilshard , was cruly

L: "murdered at the brickfields by her husband, assisted by another
P: murdered at the brick fields by hes husband , asisted by another

L: "native, Cole-be , who first beat her dreadfully about the head (the
P: " native , Cole be , who first beat her dreadfuly about the head ] the

L: "common mode of chastising their women), and then put an end to
P: " comon mode of chastising their woment , and the put an end to

L: "her existence by driving a spear through her heart.
P: " hes existence by driving a spear through hes heart .

L: "When spoken to or censured for robbing the maize grounds,
P: " When spoken to or censured for oubding the maige grounds ,

L: "these people, to be revenged, were accustomed to assemble in large
P: " these people , to be resenged , were acustomed to asemble in large

L: "bodies, burn the homes of the settlers if they stood in lonely situa-
P: " bodies , burn the houses of the setlers if they stod in lonely situa-

L: -"tions, "and frequently attempted to take their lives; yet they were
P: - tions , and frequently atempted to take their lives ; ept they were

L: "seldom refused a live corn when they were asked for it. It was
P: " seldom refused a litle corn when they were asked for it . It was

L: "imagined that they were stimulated to this destructive conduct by
P: " imagined that they were stimulated to this destructive onduct by

L: "some run-away convicts who were known to be among them at
P: some nun-away convicts who were known to be among them at

L: "the time of their committing these depravations. In order to get
P: " the time of their comiting these depredations . In orer to get

L: "possession of these pests, a proclamation was issued, calling on
P: " posesion of these perto , a proclamation was isued , caling on

L: "them by name to surrender themselves within 14 days, declaring
P: " them by name to surender themselves within to days , declaring

L: "them outlaws if they refused, and requiring the inhabitants, as
P: " them oulows if they refused , and requiring the inhabstants , as

L: "they valued the peace and good order of the settlement, and their
P: they valued the peace and god order of the setlement , and their

L: "own security, to assist in apprehending and bringing them to
P: " own security , to asist in aprehending and bringing them to

L: "justice. The governor also signified his determination, if any of the
P: " justice . The governor also signified his determination , if any of the

L: natives
P: satues

L: 3
P: 2

L: (3
P: (

L: parties whether or no Quasi-Trial shall have
P: pacties , whether or no Ruasi , Tual shal have

L: place: if any one says yes, he appoints day &
P: place , if any one says yes , he apoint Day O

L: hour: earlier or ulterior time, if applied for, are
P: lour , carker or alterior time , if apled for , are

L: granted by him or refused: if Quasi Trial be
P: granded by him or refured , if Reasi Thal be

L: not applied for, the provisional decrees, from
P: nt aplied for , the provisional Decres , from

L: provisional, become absolute.
P: provisional , become als : lute .

L: Art. 8. The Quasi Trial is performed at
P: Art . 3 . The Erasi Trial is perfoumed at

L: one Sitting or if more be necessary at divers sittings:
P: one titing or if wore be ncesary at Ties Oeteng .

L: but unless for special and extraordinary reason as-
P: but ules for special and extraondivary reason of

L: -signed, it is gone through at one sitting, unless
P: :gighed , it is gone brough at any dithing , wnhes

L: the whole time employable at that one Sitting
P: the whoh time employable at that one Seting

L: has been consumed before the suit has thus been
P: ba ben consuned before the suit has thus ben

L: rendered ripe for definitive decrees.
P: tendured ripe for definitive decrer .

L: Art. 9. At this recapitulatory examination
P: Art 9 . At his recapitulatory examination

L: no evidence is receivable, that was not exhibited
P: no evidence is receivable , that was not exhibited

L: in the course of the original examination.
P: in the course of the originial examination .

L: Art. 10. At this Quasi Trial may be re-
P: Art . 4 . An this Pusi sial way be re-

L: -argued and reconsidered or for the first time ar-
P: : argaed and recoundered or for the first tims ar-

L: gued and considered, the question of law.
P: gined and congidered , the question of law ,

L: Art. 11. The incidental occasional on
P: Act . I . Te usdertal ocasiouald on

L: which a hearing before a Quasi Jury has place
P: whief i hearing before a luasi Jury has place

L: are those on which Appeal for Quasi misdecision
P: cae those on Sul Ofical forluase mis decision

L: may
P: meney

L: 2.
P: 2 .

L: C
P: C

L: Of Simple Personal Injuries.
P: Of Simple Personal Injuries .

L: (a)
P: ( A )

L: drug or to expose himself to circumstances injurious to his health .
P: drug or to expose himself to circumstances injurious to his halh =

L: [(D) Uneasiness] It matters not how slight the contact + is by
P: [ ( D ) Uneasines ] It maters not how slight the Contact is by

L: which the uneasiness is produced: the touch however slight may
P: which the uneasines is produced : the touch however slight may=

L: be sufficient to produce uneasiness in a man if it be against his
P: be suficient to produce uneasines in a man if it be against his

L: (E) Farther
P: B ) Farther

L: Will.
P: Wil .

L: Note
P: Note

L: (a)
P: ( a )

L: 1. For the cases in which a man may happen to be con=
P: 1 . For the cases in which a man may hapen to be con=

L: :cerned in occasioning bodily pain or uneasiness in another by
P: : cerned in ocasioning , bodily pain or uneasines in another by

L: permanent practices, such as the carrying on of dangerous, offen=
P: permanent practices , such as the carying on of dangerous , ofen=

L: :sive, or unwholesome, occupations. See
P: sive , or un wholesome , ocupations . Se

L: 1. Laws relative to Householders in general.
P: 1 . Laws relative to Housholders in general .

L: 2. Laws relative to the several sorts of Manufactorers or Shop=
P: 2 . Laws relative to the several sorts of Manufactorers or Shop=

L: Keepers whose trades are apt to occasion danger or annoyance; such
P: Repers whose trades are apt to ocasion danger or anogance ; such

L: as Gun powder Manufactorers, Turpentine Distillers, Manufactorers
P: as bun powder Manufactorers , Turpentine Distilers , Manufactorers

L: of Oil of Vitriol, Tanners, Tallow Chandlers, Brasiers, Pewterers &c.
P: of Oil of Pitriol , Taners , Talow Chandters , Brasiers , Sewterer se .

L: &c. In all these cases the damage, if any, is commonly either unintentio=
P: &c . In al these cases the damage , if any , is comonly either unintentio=

L: :nal, or at most not directly but only indirectly intentional. See Introd.
P: nal ,or at most not directly but only indirectly intentional . Se Introd =

L: Ch. Of Intention and Consciousness.
P: Ch . Of Intention and Consciousnes .

L: For the Cases in which a Man may happen to be concerned
P: For the Cases in which a Man may hapen to be concerned

L: in producing bodily pain or uneasiness by selling unwholesome provisions,
P: in producing bodily pain or uneasines by seling unwholes ome provisions ,

L: See Laws concerning the several Trades relative to the several sorts of Provisions.
P: Se Laws conceuring the sevent Trades relative to the several sorts of Provisions .

L: 25. _ The Police-Offices to be open for business from
P: 23 . The Police -Ofices to be open for busines from

L: nine, in the morning, till nine, at night.
P: nine , in the moning , til nine , al night .

L: 26. _ The present number of Runners, or Constables,
P: 20 . The present number of Runers , oc lonstablet ,

L: to the Police-Offices, are very insufficient.
P: to the Police Ofices , are very insuficient .

L: 27. _ No soldier should ever appear in the streets with:
P: 27 . No Soldier should ever apear in the strets with=

L: :out his uniform.
P: : out his uniform .

L: 28. _ The penalty on forfeiture of recognizances, in
P: 23 . The penalty on forfeiture of recognizances , in

L: case of non-prosecution, should be considerably
P: case of non-prosecution , should be considerably

L: increased, and the payment thereof be enforced.
P: increased , and the payment thereof enforced .

L: 29. _ The Expences allowed to Prosecutors & Witnesses
P: 69 . _ The expences alowed to Proxecutord & Witneser

L: from distant parts, are not sufficiently liberal; on
P: from distant parts , are not suficiently liberal ; on

L: which account many Delinquents evade justice.
P: which acount many Delinquents evade justice .

L: 30. _ A Barrister and sufficient number of Atornies
P: 3 . A Barister and suficient number of Mories

L: should be appointed to prosecute for the Crown, in
P: should be apointed to prosecute for the Crown , in

L: criminal cases; and to conduct indictments for
P: criminal cases ; and to conduct indictments for

L: such persons as are too poor to undertake them
P: such persons as are to por to undertake them

L: on their own account.
P: on their own acount .

L: 31. _ The City of London ought to build a House
P: 31 . _ The lity of London ought to build a House

L: of Correction; where all the London-Prisoners, who
P: of Corection , where al the London Prisoners , who

L: under
P: wtal .

L: are sentence of temporary imprisonment, should
P: are sentence of temporary imprisonment , should

L: be kept and compelled to work. No prisoners, under
P: be kept and compeled to work . No prisoners , under

L: fines, or temporary confinement, should be permitted
P: fines , or temporary confinement , should be permited

L: to remain in Newgate, or the Compters, after sen:
P: to rerain in Hewgate , or the Compters , after son-

L: :tence has been once passed.
P: :tence has ben once pased .

L: 32. _ Executions are of no utility, either for punishing
P: 2 . Exceutions are of no utility , either for punishing

L: or deterring: _ if, however, they must be inflicted,
P: or detering : _ if , however , they must be inflicted ,

L: they should be done, as speedily as possible, after
P: they should be done , as spedily as posible , after

L: passing sentence. Solitary confinement & labour
P: paking sentence . Ibetary confinement &labour

L: 11
P: 1

L: the whole produce and profit of their labour, and the
P: the whole produce and profit of their labour , and the

L: same to retain subject only to the allowances to be
P: same to retain subject only to the alowances to be

L: made to such prisoners in manner herein after
P: made to such prisoners in maner herein after

L: mentioned.
P: mentioned .

L: Art.7. Each Prisoner shall be supplied every day
P: Art7 . Each Prisoner shal be suplied every day

L: with wholesome food, as much as he shall choose:
P: with wholesome fod , as must as he shal chose .

L: but the quality in other respects is expressly reser-
P: but the quality in other respects is expresly reser-

L: -ved to the choice of the said Jeremy Bentham and
P: -ved to the choice of the said Jeremy Bentham and

L: his Successors as a means of engaging the said Pri-
P: his Sucesors as a means of engaging the said Pri-

L: -soners without the spur of corporal severities to set
P: -soners without the spur of corporal severities to set

L: their hands to labour.
P: their hands to laboer .

L: a
P: 4 .

L: Art.8. Each prisoner shall be kept properly clo thed,
P: Art.8 . Each prisoner shal be kept properly elithed ,

L: and to that purpose shall be supplied at least once a
P: and to that purpose shal be suplied at least once a

L: year with a compleat suit of such cloaths as shall
P: year with a compleat suit of such cloaths as shal

L: be allotted, and with a clean shirt at least twice in
P: be aloted , and with a clean shirt at least twice in

L: every week.
P: every wek .

L: Art.9. Each prisoner shall be constantly suppli-
P: Art.9 . Each prisoner shal be constantle supli-

L: -ed with a separate bed and bedding of sufficient
P: -ed with a separate bed and beding of suficient

L: warmth, and kept in a state of constant cleanliness
P: warmth , and kept in a state of constant cleanlines

L: clean sheeting or blanketing being supplied to each
P: clean sheting or blanketing being suplied to each

L: at least once in every month.
P: at least once in every month

L: Art.10. The Prison shall at all proper seasons
P: Art . 1 . The Prison shal at al proper seasons

L: and in ever part thereof be sufficiently warmed &
P: and in every part thereof be suficiently warmed &

L: lighted.
P: lagpted .

L: Art.11. No prisoner shall be suffered to have access
P: Art.1 . No prisoner shal be sufered to have aces

L: to any kind of spirituous or fermented liquor, except
P: to any kind of spirituons or fermented liquor , except

L: in as far as the same shall have been prescribed
P: in as far as the same shal have ben prescribed

L: in
P: in

L: 18.
P: 18 .

L: G
P: C

L: Simple  Corporal Injuries
P: Simple Of drcancse Corporal Enjures

L: constitute some degree of excuse extenuation.
P: constitute some degre of excuses extenuation .

L: 2. It matters not whether the Mis-supposal in this case
P: 2 . It maters not whether the Mis suposal in this case

L: the
P: the

L: regards the matter of fact or the matter of law. It regards
P: regards the mater of fact or mater of law . It regards

L: the matter of fact where you suppose some damage to
P: the mater of fact where you supose some damage to

L: have been done you by your adversary, whereas in fact
P: have ben done you by your adversary , whereas in fact

L: he has done you no such damage. It regards the mat=
P: he has done you no such damage . It regards the mat=

L: :ter of law, where you suppose him to have no right
P: : ter of law , where you supose him to have no right

L: to do you such damage, whereas in truth he had a
P: to do you such damage , whereas in truth he had a

L: General Extenuation
P: General Extenation

L: right. See Excuse II. Ignorance of the Law.
P: right . Se Exuse I . Ignorance of the Law .

L: [(B1 Injury] It matters not to whom the injury in ques=
P: [ ( A ) Injury ] It maters not to whom the injury in ques=

L: =tion immediately relates, whether
P: : tion imediately retates , whether .

L: 1. To the party himself who is provoked.
P: 1 . To the party himself who is provohed .

L: 2. To any one who is particularly dear to him.
P: 2 . To any one who is particularly dear to him .

L: 3. To the Public: For the interests of the Public ought
P: 3 . To the Public : for the interests of the Public ought

L: to be dear to every man.
P: to be dear to every man .

L: 4. Even to the party himself by whom the provocation is
P: 4 . Even to the party himself by whom the provocation is

L: given: for every man ought to be dear to every man.
P: given : for every man aought to be dear to every man .

L: Accordingly if you think you observe any person giving
P: Acordingly if you think you observe any person giving

L: into any kind of vice, and, from the pain which it gives
P: into any kind of vice , and , from the pain which it gives

L: you to think of his behaviour, are provoked to strike
P: you to think of his behaviour , are provohed to strike

L: him, it is a less offence than if you struck him in the
P: him , it is a les ofence than if you struck him in the

L: course
P: course

L: 16
P: 18

L: default of such Devisee or Devisees then by the Executor or
P: default of such Devise or Devises then by the Executor or

L: Executors Administrator or Administrators of , or person or
P: Executors Administrator or Administrators of , or person or

L: persons intitled to take out Administration to, the personal
P: persons intitled to take out Administration to , the personal

L: Estate of such Survivor as aforesaid , untill due satisfaction
P: Estate of such Survivor as aforesaid , until due satisfaction

L: shall have been made to the Estate of such Survivor as well
P: shal have ben made to the Estate of such Survivor as wel

L: for the value of the said Buildings and other irremoveable
P: for the value of the said Buildings and other iremoveable

L: improvements of every kind made in or upon the said
P: improvements of every kind made in or upon the said

L: Land or any part thereof as for the moveable stock remain-
P: Land or any part thereof as for the moveable stock remain=

L: -ing thereon and occupied therewith : And in default of such
P: -ing thereon and ocupied therewith : And in default of such

L: Feoffee so appointed , such seizin and possession as aforesaid
P: Feofe so apointed , such seizin and posesion as aforesaid

L: shall remain and continue in such legal representatives or
P: shal remain and continue in such legal representatives or

L: persons intitled to take out Administration as aforesaid : And
P: persons intitled to take out Administration as aforesaid : And

L: all such allowances as under the terms of this agreement were
P: al such alowances as under the terms of this agrement were-

L: made or to have been made to such Survivor , for or on account
P: made or to have ben made to such Survivor , for or on acount

L: of the maintenance of the said Establishment , shall during the
P: of the maintenance of the said Establishment , shal during the

L: same period continue to be made unto the person or persons
P: same period continue to be made unto the person or persons

L: so seized and possessed as aforesaid : the value of such Build-
P: so seized and posesed as aforesaid : the value of such Build-

L: -ings improvements and stock to be settled by two referees, one
P: -ings improvements and stock to be setled by two referes , one

L: to be appointed by the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury or
P: to be apointed by the Lords Comisioners of the Treasury ox-

L: [their Successors the other by the person or persons so seized and
P: their Sucesors the other by the person or persons so seized and

L: possessed or intitled so to be as aforesaid , with power to appoint
P: posesed or intitled so to be as aforesaid , with power to apoint _

L: an umpire.
P: an umpire .

L: 9
P: 2

L: and building one or more Penitentiary House or Houses
P: and building one or more Penitentiary House or Houses

L: upon the said Ground in such manner and under
P: upon the said Ground in such maner and under

L: and for such considerations, terms, conditions, powers,
P: and for such considerations , terms , conditions , powers ,

L: limitations and restrictions as the said Commissioners
P: timutations and restrictions as the said Comisioners

L: shall deem necessary and expedient, and shall cause
P: shal dem necesary and expedient , and shal cause

L: to be inserted in such Contract or Contracts such law-
P: to be inserted in such Contract or Contracts such law-

L: -ful clauses, covenants and agreements, as shall be re-
P: ful clatves , covenants and agrements , as shal be re-

L: -quisite to enforce the execution of the same according-
P: quisite to enforce the execution of the same acording

L: -ly, and within a time to be limited And Whereas
P: ly , and within a time to be limited And Whereas

L: in and by an instrument dated this day the said
P: in and by an instrument dated this day the said

L: Piece of Ground has been fixed upon accordingly and
P: Piece of Ground has ben fixed upon acordingly and

L: the said Jeremy Bentham appointed sole Feoffee for
P: the said Jeremy Bentham apointed sole Feofe for

L: the purpose of purchasing the same And Whereas
P: the purpose of purchasing the same And Whereas

L: he the said Jeremy Bentham hath proposed at his
P: he the said Jeremy Bentham hath proposed at his

L: own expence but upon such terms and conditions and
P: own expence but upon such terms and conditions and

L: for such considerations as are herein after mentioned,
P: for such considerations as are herein after mentioned ,

L: to erect and adapt to the purpose aforesaid a build-
P: to eret and adapt to the purpose aforesaid a build

L: -ing of a new and peculiar nature invented by
P: -ing of a new and peculiar nature invented by

L: Samuel Bentham Knight of the Military Order of
P: Samuel Bentham Knight of the Military Order of

L: St George of Russia and Brigadier General in
P: It George of Rusia and Brigadier General in

L: her Imperial Majesty's Service, Brother of the said
P: her Imperial Majesty ' s Service , Brother of the said

L: Jeremy Bentham under the name of a Panopticon
P: Jeremy Bentham under the name of a Panopticon

L: or Inspection House in and by means of which said
P: or Inspection House in and by means of which said

L: Building any number of persons may in as far as
P: Building any number of persons may in as far as

L: it shall be thought proper be kept under the in-
P: it shal be thought proper be kept under the in-

L: -spection of any person or number of persons in
P: -spection of any person or number of persons in

L: charge
P: trauge

L: 6
P: 6

L: extension of the Colony Plan, or adoption of some
P: extension of the Colony Plan , or adoption of some

L: other mode of disposing of Convicts) perhaps not above
P: other mode of disposing of Convicts ) perhaps not abve

L: 100 are received into this £100,000 House. What is
P: 10 are received into this 10,0 House . What is

L: the consequence? that for each Convict House rent
P: the consequence ? that for each Convict House rent

L: alone (£5000 at 5 per Cent) comes to £50 a year.
P: alone ( 10 at 5 per Cent ) comes to 0 a year .

L: On Mr Bentham's plan it comes to £9 a year, and
P: On Mr Bentham ' s plan it comes to 9 a year , and

L: that for two years only.
P: that for two years only .

L: A plain proof that all idea of refunding was
P: A plain prof that al idea of refunding was

L: out of the question, or rather that it was perfectly
P: out of the question , or rather that it was perfectly

L: understood that nothing should be refunded, is, that
P: understod that nothing should be refunded , is , that

L: Mr Bentham was, for months together, with the
P: Mr Bentham was , for months together , with the

L: privit of Government and at the recommendation of
P: privity of Government and at the recomendation of

L: Government, in treaty on his own account with the
P: Government , in treaty on his own acount with the

L: Proprietors for the purchase of the Land: Government
P: Proprictors for the purchase of the Land : Government

L: having agreed to advance the purchase money in that
P: having agred to advance the purchase money in that

L: case to Mr Bentham for a short time. The Pro-
P: case to Mr Bentham for a short time . The Pro-

L: -prietors not complying; an Act of Parliament for
P: -prictors not complying , an Act of Parliament for

L: this and other purposes was thought necessary: and
P: this and other purposes was thought necesary : and

L: upon that occasion it was, that it was notified to
P: upon that ocasion it was , that it was notified to

L: Mr Bentham, as the determination of Government,
P: Mr Bentham , as the determination of Government ,

L: that the Ground should be purchased, not on Mr
P: that the Gpound should be purchased , not on Mr

L: Bentham's account, but on the account of Government:
P: Bentham ' s acount , but on the acount of Government .

L: but that due satisfaction should be made to Mr
P: but that due satisfaction should be made to Mr

L: Bentham and his Representatives. No reason was
P: Bentham and his Representatives . No reason was

L: assigned for this departure: Mr Bentham's consent to it
P: asigned for this departure . Mr Bentham ' s consent to it

L: was not called for: it was not given: he was not heard
P: was not caled for : it was not given : he was not heard

L: upon
P: apo

L: C
P: C

L: 15.
P: 13 .

L: Offences against the external Security of the State.
P: Ofences against the external Security of the State .

L: is commonly distinguished by the name Piracy.
P: is comonly distinguished by the name of Piracy .

L: When an Offence against Property originates in a
P: When an Ofence against Property originates in a

L: motive of rapacity and not in motives of resentment the
P: motive of rapacity and not in motives of resentment the

L: property of one person will answer the purpose as well
P: property of one person wil answer the purpose as wel

L: as another . If therefore the primary mischief of such an Of:
P: as another . If therefore the primary mischief of such an Of=

L: :fence be confined to a single state, the secondary mischief,
P: : fence be confined to a single state ; the secondary mischief ,

L: however, extends itself to all states the members of which
P: however , extends itself to al states the members of which

L: are likely to come in the offender's way. An act of Piracy is
P: are likely to come in the ofender ' s way . An act of Piracy is

L: therefore commonly looked upon as an act of hostility against
P: therefore comonly loked upon as an act of hostility against

L: mankind in general . The least therefore which is expected
P: mankind in general . The least therefore which is expected

L: from the State of which the Pirate is a member is that
P: from the State of which the Priate is a member is that

L: it should acquiesce in his being punished : If it happens
P: it should acquiese in his being punished . If it hapens

L: to have any particular means in its hands of punishing
P: to have any particular means in its hands of punishing

L: him , it may also be expected to take an active part in pu=
P: him , it may also be expected to take an active part in pu=

L: :nishing him : as likewise in punishing any accomplices
P: : nishing him : as likewise in punishing any acomplices

L: he may have ; and in taking any other expedients that
P: he may have ; and in taking any other expedients that

L: may occur for preventing the offence . This holds good more
P: may ocur for preventing the ofence . This holds god more

L: particularly with regard to accomplices ; because their
P: particularly with regard to acomplices ; because their

L: residence will frequently be upon land within the domi=
P: residence wil frequently be upon land within the domi=

L: while
P: while

L: :nions of a particular state which his excursions are
P: : nions of a particular state , ticd his ocursions ane

L: carried on upon that element which is common to man=
P: caried on upon that clement which is comon to man=

L: =kind.
P: = tends .

L: 2
P: 2

L: Upon the abovementioned terms he would engage
P: Upon the abovementioned terms he would engage

L: as follows_
P: as folows .

L: 1.st To furnish the prisoners with a constant supply
P: 1.t To furnish the prisoners with a constant suply

L: of wholesome food, not limited in quantity, but a-
P: of wholesome fod , not limited in quantity , but a-

L: -dequate to each man's desires.
P: -dequate to each man ' s desires .

L: 2. To keep them clad in a state of lightness & neat-
P: 2 . To kep them clad in a state of lightnes & neab-

L: -ness, superior to what is usual among the lower clas-
P: -nes , superior to what is usual among the lower clas-

L: -ses or even in the improved prisons.
P: -ses or even in the improved prisons .

L: 3rd To keep them supplied with separate beds and
P: 3d To kep them suplied with separate beds and

L: bedding, competent to their situation, and in a state
P: beding , competent to their situation , and in a state

L: of cleanliness scarce any where conjoined with liberty.
P: of cleanlines scarce any where conjoined with liberty .

L: 4th To insure to them a sufficient supply of artificial
P: 1th To insure to them a suficient suply of artificial

L: warmth and light, whenever the season renders it
P: warmth and light , whenever the season renders it

L: necessary, and thereby preserve them from being
P: necesary , and thereby preserve them from being

L: obliged as in other places, to desist from their work,
P: obliged as in other places , to desist from their work ,

L: as well as from suffering from the inclemency of
P: as wel as from sufering from the inclemency of

L: the weather.
P: the weather .

L: 5.th To keep constantly from them, in conformity to the
P: 4 . To kep constantly from them , in conformity to the

L: practice so happily received, every kind of strong &
P: practice so hapily received , every kind of streny

L: spirituous liquor, unless where ordered in the way of
P: spirituous liquor , unles where ordered in the way of

L: medicine.
P: matune.

L: 6th To maintain them in a state of inviolable
P: 8.th To maintain them in a state of inviolable

L: though mitigated seclusion, in small assorted com-
P: though mitigated seclusion , in smal asorted com-

L: panies, without any of those opportunities of pro
P: -panies , without any of those oportunities of pro

L: -miscuous association, which in other improved pri-
P: -miscuous asociation , which in other improved pri-

L: -sons disturb if not destroy whatever good effect can
P: -sons disturb if not destroy whatever god efect can

L: have been expected from solitude.
P: have ben expected from solitude .

L: 7. To
P: 7 . To .

L: 62
P: 62 .

L: THEFT
P: THEFT

L: wherefrom this Consciousness might be infer'd were
P: wherefrom this Consciousnes might be inferd were

L: yet themselves reducible to some one or other of
P: yet themselves reducible to some one or other of

L: those 4.
P: those t .

L: found
P: found

L: But I had Cause at length to abandon
P: But I lad Cause at length to abander

L: the pursuit, in the Persuasion that this
P: the Pursuit , in the Persuasion that this

L: Consciousness might by infer'd with equal
P: Consciousnes might be inferd with equal

L: Satisfaction & Certainty from any of the respective
P: Satisfaction & Certainty fromany of the respective

L: individual Circumstances directly as thro'
P: individual Bircumstances directhy as thro

L: the Medium of any of those specific Heads: the
P: the Medium of any of those specific Heads : the

L: Establishment of them as the Subjects of distinct
P: stablishment of them as the Subjects of distinct

L: Questions to the Jury would therefore have no Use; and
P: Questions to the Jury would therefore have no Use ; and

L: it might have this Inconvenience, that the
P: it might have this Inconvenience , that the

L: be
P: be

L: Distinction between them would not in every Care
P: Distinction betwen them would not in every Case

L: so clear, as that the Jury could concur in affirming
P: so clear , as that the Jury could concur in efirining

L: the Existence of any one in particular and disaffirming
P: the Existence of any one in particular and dit afirm

L: that of the others: hence if the Interrogatories
P: -ing that of the others : hence if the Interogatories

L: concerning each were put separately, tho' some one
P: concerning each were put separately , tho ' some one

L: or other of these Circumstances unquestionably had
P: or other of these Circumstances unquestionably had

L: Existence, yet not knowing precisely which, they
P: Existence , yet not knowing precisely which , they

L: would think themselves obliged to disaffirm it of
P: would think themselves obliged to disafirm it If

L: them all.
P: them al .

L: For
P: Tor

L: My Lords, Whitehall 14 Oct. 1799.
P: Mly Lords Whitchal t Act . 19

L: Mr King having laid before me a Letter from
P: Mr Thing huring laid before me a Leter for

L: Mr Long of the 27th ulto, desiring, by command of
P: Ar Lony of the 2 il Disirng , by comand of

L: your Lordships, to be apprized of the number of Con-
P: your Lordships , to be apoted of the umber of lown

L: -victs, which the Panopticon proposed to be erected by
P: -victs o which the Panopticon , proposed to be enicted by

L: Mr Bentham, is intended to accommodate. I have
P: Mr Bentham , is intended to acomodate . I have

L: examined the Acts of the 19th & 34th of his present
P: examind the Acts of the 19t 5 3th of his present

L: Majesty, relative to the building of Penitentiary Houses
P: Majesty , relative to the building of Penitentiary Houses

L: for confining and employing in hard labour, Persons
P: for confining and employing in hard lebour , Person

L: convicted of transportable and other Crimes.
P: convictet of transportable and other Crimes .

L: I understand the object of these Acts to be, that
P: I understand the object of these Acts to be that

L: such Penitentiary Houses should be used principally
P: such Punstentrary Houses should be and prinipaly

L: as receptacles for such transportable Convicts as the
P: as receptucles for such trensportable Convricts as the

L: several Gaols of the respective Counties cannot contain,
P: several Gasts of the respetive Countier canot contain

L: from the time of their receiving sentence, till an
P: from the time of thes recioing Ientune , il an

L: opportunity may offer for their being transported.
P: opotionty may ofe for their being transported :

L: With respect to the probably number of transport-
P: Withe repet to the probable number of transport

L: -able Convicts _
P: l Conorcts _

L: no safer rule can be adopted, than by taking the
P: is safer rute can be adopted , than by taking the

L: greatest number of the four last years of Peace:
P: gratest number of the from last years of Leave .

L: though it may increase, yet the increase of live
P: through it may encrease , yet the encrose of hure

L: Stock use will probably more than counter balance the
P: Stock e , nitl protatly more than cointe batence the

L: difference.]
P: supron .

L: will probably more than counterbalance the difference.
P: wil probebly more than comntorbalane the diference

L: 3
P: 3

L: P. 126. September 1790. "In order to encourage as far as possible
P: P.16 . September 1790 . In order to encourage as far as posible

L: "the rearing of swine in the colony, as well as of every other
P: " the rearing of swime in the colony , as wel as of every other

L: "kind of live stock, a circumstance that must not  only prove
P: " kind of dive stock , a circumstance that must not sot only prove

L: "a great benefit to the public, but be also highly to the advantage
P: " a great benefit to the public , but be aho highly to the advantage

L: "of those who devoted a part of their time to this useful purpose,
P: " of those who devrted a part of their time to this useful purpose ,

L: "and which, from the advanced state of the private farmers, might
P: " and which , from the advanced state of the private farmed , might

L: "now be done with far less trouble and expence than formerly, the
P: " non be done with far les trouble and expence than formerty , the

L: "settlers and others were informed, that when any individual should
P: " setlers and others were informed , that when any individual should

L: "have prepared a number of such animals fit for the public
P: " have prepared a number of such amimals fit for the public

L: "store, they might make the same known to the commissary,
P: " store , they might make the same known to the comisary ,

L: "who, in order to prevent any unnecessary expence to the feeder,
P: " who , in order to prevent any unecesary expence to the felter ,

L: "would get give immediate notice of the day and place when
P: " would gve give imediale notuce of the day and place when

L: "and where he would receive them. He was also at liberty to
P: " and twhere he would receive them . He was also at liberty to

L: "enter into an agreement or contract for a certain length of time,
P: " enter into an agrement or contract for a certain length of time ,

L: "and on such conditions as should be agreed, with any person who
P: " and on such conditions as should be agred , with any person who

L: "would engage to furnish the public store either at Sydney, Parra-
P: " would engage to furnish the public store either at Sigeney , ara-

L: -"matta, or the Hawkesbury, with any certain quantity at stated
P: " mate , or the Hawhestoury , with any certain quantity at stated

L: "periods."
P: perods .

L: P. 196 January 1799. "That he [the Governor] might ascertain what
P: P . 10 January 179 . " that he the Covernor ) might ascertain wheat

L: "quantity of grain he had to depend on, all those who cultivated
P: "quantity of grain he had to depend an , al those who cultuated

L: "ground were directed to give in by a certain time a return of the
P: " ground were directed to give in by a certain time a return of the

L: "wheat and other grain in their possession."
P: " wheat and other grain in their posesion ? _

L: P. 196. January 1799. "Wheat at this time bore a high price
P: P . 16 .January 179 . Wheat at this time bere a high price

L: "in Norfolk Island, the settlers who had raised refusing to sell it,
P: "in Norfolk Istand , the setler who had raised refusing to sel it ,

L: "on account of the high wages, at less than fifteen shillings per
P: " on acount of the high wayes , at les than fofer shilings per

L: "bushel."
P: Crishil .

L: C
P: C

L: 10.
P: 10 .

L: Offences against the external Security of the State.
P: Ofences against the external Security of the State

L: naturally under the several titles which are taken from
P: nuturaly under the several titles which are taken from

L: the several different ways in which the party injured
P: the several diferent ways in which the party injured

L: either
P: either

L: may be affected by them. They are offences against person,
P: may be afected by them . They are ofences against person ,

L: or or
P: 

L: offences against property, offences against reputation, and
P: ofences against property ofences against reputation ; and

L: so forth, as the case may be.
P: so forth , as the case may be .

L: If the place in which the offence was committed be
P: If the place in which the ofence was comited be

L: within the dominions of a third state it is from such third
P: within the dominions of a third state it is from such third

L: power that the state of which the party injured is a
P: power that the state of which the party injured is a

L: member will expect satisfaction in the first instance. If
P: member wil expect satisfaction in the first instance . If

L: however it be out of its power to give satisfaction the
P: however it be out of its power to give satisfaction the

L: property as well as person of the offender being out of
P: property as wel as person of the ofender being out of=

L: its reach, the injured state may naturally enough be dis=
P: its reach , the injured state may naturaly enough be dis=

L: :posed to resort to that of which the offender is a mem=
P: : posed to resort to that of which the ofender is a mem=

L: :ber. It may perhaps expect the same punishment to
P: : ber . It may perhaps expect the same punishment to

L: be inflicted on him as would be inflicted on him for
P: be inflected on him as would be inflicted on him for

L: an offence of the same kind committed to the prejudice
P: an ofence of the same kind comited to the prejudice

L: of a fellow member; it will hardly expect more.
P: of a felow-member ; it wil hardly expect more .

L: If the place be a vacant spot not within the domi=
P: If the place be a vacant spot not within the domi=

L: :nions of any state, the state of which the offender is a mem=
P: : nions of any state , the state of which the ofender is a mem=

L: :ber will naturally be that to which the injured state
P: : ber wil naturaly be that to which the injured state

L: will resort in the first instance. It may however resort
P: wil resort in the first instance . It may however resorto

L: in
P: ind

L: 23.
P: 20

L: C
P: C

L: Corporal Injuries
P: Emoal sajures

L: Simple Of  Extenuations.
P: Simple Of oain anr Uatin .

L: employed; nor shall it be considered whether a person revolving
P: employed : nor shal it be considered whether a person revolving

L: the circumstances at his leisure could or could not have
P: the circumstances at his leisure could or could not have

L: thought of a cheaper means of repelling the attack but whether
P: thought of a cheaper means of repeting the atack but whether

L: any such cheaper means did actually occur to the party at
P: any such cheaper means did actualy ocur to the party at

L: the time.
P: the time .

L: Exposition.
P: Exposition .

L: [(A) Les mischief] As if a man were suddenly to assault
P: [ ( A ) Les mischief ] As if a man were sudenty to asault

L: You with a stick at a time that a stout stick and an iron
P: You with a stick at a time that a stout stick and an iron

L: bar of the same size were both lying within your reach:
P: :bar of the same sice were both lying within your reach .

L: where upon snatching up the iron bar you strike him in
P: where upon satching up the iron bar you strike him in

L: such a manner as to give him dangerous bruise or kill
P: such a maner as to give him a dangerous brwise or kil

L: him. In such case unless it appears that you deliberately took
P: him . In such case unles it apears that you deliberately tok

L: up the iron bar in preference to the stick intending there=
P: up the iron bar in preference to the stick intending there=

L: :with to kill him or hurt him more than was necessary, it
P: : with to kil him or hurt him more than was necesary , it

L: shall still be accounted justifiable self-defence
P: shal stil be acounted justitiable self-defence

L: [(B) Uncertain efficacy] As if in the case just mentioned it hap=
P: [ ( ) Uncertain eficary ] ] As if in the case just mentioned it hap

L: :pened that you were much weaker than the assailant; inso=
P: : pened that you were much weaker than the asailant ; inso=

L: :much that it would have been doubtful whether with the less
P: : much that it would have ben doultful whether with the les

L: powerful weapon of the two, you could have effectually defend=
P: powerful weapon of the two , you could have efectualy defend=

L: :ed Yourself.
P: : ed Yourself .

L: may depend venture to depend on? If after pay-
P: may depend venture to depend on ? . If after pay-

L: to this Lawyer
P: to this Lawyer

L: ing four Guineas for four Volumes of his Truths,
P: -ing four Guineas , for four Volumes of his Tuths ,

L: I pay a couple to another, for any one that I
P: I pay a comple to another , for any one that I

L: self-
P: self

L: may want, will his be all of the same sort?
P: may want , wil his be al of the same Frt ?

L: 70
P: 10

L: True it is that about 65 pages after, under
P: True it is that about te pages after , under

L: another Title if I happen to fall upon it, I may
P: another Title if I hapen to fal upon it , I may

L: see, that by her Husbands License "which he
P: se , that by her Husbands bicense which he

L: frequently covenants with her Friends to allow
P: frequently covenants with her Friends to alow

L: her a Wife may make a Will: or rather as
P: her a Wife may make a Wil : or rother as

L: the Author I may also see, that "if she has
P: the Author I may also se , that " if she thas

L: any Pinmoney or separate Maintenance" of which
P: any Pinmoney or separate Maintenance of which

L: I have no other Intimation than from this
P: I have no other Intimation than from this

L: Passage and which that part of the Work which
P: Papage and which that part of the Work which

L: is appropriated particularly to the subject of her
P: is apropriated particularly to the Subject of her

L: Power assures me, as far as it is in the power of
P: Povery asures me , as far as it is in the power of

L: general Words to assure, me that she cannot have,
P: general Words to asure me that she canot have ,

L: such and such Consequences will follow. But
P: such and such Consequences wil folow . But

L: is not a Man to be put into Possession of the Law
P: is not a Man to be put into Posresion of the Law

L: on any single Point but upon Terms [and those not
P: on any single Point but upon Terms ( and those not

L: declared] of his reading the whole Book? And
P: declared ) of his reading the whole Bok ? And

L: in a voluminous Treatise on a very extensive &
P: in a valuminous Treative on a very extensive &

L: divided
P: devded

L: 9
P: 3

L: (4
P: 6

L: Art. II. VII. Appeal warranting function. A certain
P: Art . 1 . I . Ofecal wananting function . A certain=

L: class of penal cases there is, in relation to which by
P: clas of pecal case there is , in relation to which by

L: reason of the concurrence of certain circumstances, it
P: treason of the concurence of certains circumstances I

L: may happen that in the eyes of the Legislature the
P: way hapen that in the eyes of the Legislature the

L: certain evil composed of delay, vexation and expence
P: centain wil composed of Delay - veration and axpence

L: to parties injured, might perhaps be not improperly
P: to parties ijured , wight perhaps be not uisoreserly

L: regarded as outweighing the possible chance of effec
P: reganded as eutrcighing the pasible chance of efec-

L: tive mis-decision to the prejudice of the defendant
P: tive unsdevision to the prejudice of the Defaudent

L: on the part of the Immediate Judicatory, in which
P: on the part of the Sunidiate Judicatory in which

L: case it may perhaps be deemed fit by the Le-
P: case it way pehopse the decained fit by the Se-

L: -gislature, in the framing of the Penal Code, to
P: -gilature , in the framicy of the Feual Cade , to

L: lay down as the general rule, that in these easy
P: lay down as the general rule , that in these casy

L: Appeal shall not have place. Offences of indigent
P: Apfeal shal not have place . Ofences of udigent

L: depredation, or say of predatory indigence, is the
P: defnedation , or say of predatory endigence , is the

L: appellation which may serve for a general indication
P: apelation which may sere for a general vdication

L: of the class of offences here in view. As to the enu-
P: of the clas of ofences here in viw . As to the cu-

L: meration of these offences, See Procedure Code tit.
P: mration of these ofences , Se Procedure ode it .

L: Quasi Trial
P: Ques : Til

L: Art. 12. Among two circumstances, by the consider-
P: Art . 42 . Anong thuse circumstances , by the conside .

L: -ation of which, this opinion may on the part of the
P: -ation of which , his opirion may on the parts of the

L: Legislature be perhaps produced are the following
P: Legislatuve be perhaps pruduced on the folowing

L: 1
P: 1

L: 38
P: 81

L: Note
P: Note

L: (a)The distinction is material: for as fixed income comes
P: [( ) The distinctions is material : for as fixed income comes

L: in in masses at the beginning of a period and professional &c
P: in in mases at the begining of a pornd and profesional be

L: income in driblets day by day during the course of the same
P: intome in dublets day by day during the course of the came

L: period it will be found in calculation that on equal annual
P: porind it wil be found in calculation that on equal anual

L: amounts there will be twice as much to dispose of in any such
P: amounts there wil be turice as much to dispose of in any esuch

L: way as that in question in the former case as in the latter.
P: way as that in question in the former case as in the Pater=

L: 48
P: 48

L: C
P: C

L: Of Frauds relative to the Coin.
P: Of Frauds relative to the Coin .

L: Quest. III. Why Coins of different Metal are put u=
P: Quest . I . Why Coins of diferent metal are put u=

L: :pon the same footing.
P: : pon the same foting .

L: Reasons.
P: Reasons.

L: At first sight it may appear hard that a fraud upon
P: A first sight it may apear hard that a fraud upon

L: an Article of so small a value as the Copper Coin should be
P: an Article of so smal a value as the Coper Coin should be

L: punished as severely as a fraud upon one of so high a value
P: punished as severely as a fraud upon one of so high a value

L: as the Silver or even the Gold Coin, since the profit that
P: as the Silver or even the Gold Coin , since the profit that

L: may be made by the falsifying any piece of the less precious
P: may be made by the falsifying any piece of the les precious

L: metal is not near so great as that which may be made
P: metal is not near so great as that which may be made

L: by the falsifying of the more precious metal. But the case
P: by the falsifying of the more precious metal . But the case

L: here is that the mischief is not to be estimated from the ef=
P: here is that the mischief is not to be estimated from the ef=

L: :fects of a single Act but from the effects of the Habit. Now
P: : fects of a single Act but from the efects of the Stabit . to-

L: when the Habit is taken into the Account the one practice
P: when the Habit is taken into the Acount the one practice

L: does not seem to demand in any considerable degree a great=
P: does not sem to demand in any considerable degre a great=

L: :er punishment than the other. Where the profit upon a
P: : er punishment than the other . Where the profit upon a

L: single piece is the greatest, the difficulty of getting it off is
P: single piece is the greatest , the dificulty of geting it of is

L: the greatest. The profit upon a base shilling may, it is
P: the greatest . The profit upon a base shiling may , it is

L: true be 24 times as great (or perhaps more) as the profit
P: true be 2ty times as great or perhaps more ) as the profit

L: upon
P: upon

L: 7 8
P: 12

L: C
P: C

L: Defraudment by false standards
P: Defraudment by falfe tundards

L: particular regulations can be of service will need to be different
P: particular regulations can be of service wil ned to be diferent

L: according to the local circumstances of the different countries in
P: acording to the local circumstances of the diferent countries in

L: which the several articles happen to be in use. Mean while any
P: which the Geveral articles hapen take in use . Mean while any

L: frauds that can be committed in relation to any of those articles
P: fraude that can be comited in relasion to any of those articles

L: will not go unpunished: since they will all come under the general
P: wil not go unpunished ; since they wil al come under the gine=

L: head of Sharping. ordinary defraudment.
P: : ral head of ilectiven ordenary Defraudment .

L: Instructions to the Legislator
P: Instructions to the dagefaler

L:  The notion of a false standard supposes the existence
P: 3 The notion of a false standard suposes the existence

L: of a genuine one. To establish these genuine ones for every pur:
P: of a genuine one . To establish these genuine ones for every pur=

L: :pose and in every convenient place is the business of the Sove:
P: : pose and in every convenient place is the busines of the Soue=

L: :reign. To give these institutions their full effect and render the
P: : reign . To give these institutions their ful efect and render the

L: occasions of punishing the offence less frequent the following
P: ocasions of punishing the ofence les frequent the folowing

L: expedients might be of use in the character of 
P: expidients might be of ure in the character of acepuente-

L: preventive measures. might be of use.
P: preventive measures , might be of use .

L: I. To establish public standards of each kind in the Metro:
P: 2 . To establish public standards of each kind in the Metro=

L: :polis of every judicial district. See B. Of Procedure.
P: : polis of every judicial district . Se 1 . Of Prvciduce .

L: Tit. Of Jurisdiction.
P: Tit . Of furidictin .

L: II. To permit none to be used by any trader but what are
P: 2 . To permit nore to be used by any trader but what are

L: stamped by authority.
P: stamped by authority .

L: III. To cause frequent visitations to be made by certain offi:
P: I . To cause frequent visitations to be made by certain ofi=

L: :cers at unexpected times (which, to ensure their being unexpected,
P: : cers at unexpected times ( which , to ensure their being unexpected

L: may be determined by lot) in the Shops of the several Tradesmen;
P: may be determined by lot ) in the shops of the several Tradesmen ;

L: such
P: suct

L: 3
P: 3

L: C
P: C

L: Of State-Tumults.
P: Of State-Tamults .

L: of distant danger: nor whether by fear of danger to his per=
P: of distant danger : nor whether by fear of danger to his per=

L: :son, his property or his authority.
P: : son , his property or to his authority .

L: A State Tumult is a Misdemeanour.
P: A State Tumult is a Misdemeanour .

L: For damage sustained by parties injured in the
P: For damage sustained by parties injured in the

L: course of a tumult all offenders concerned in the same tumult
P: course of a tumul al ofenders concerned in the same tumul

L: are liable, whether it can or cannot be proved that they act
P: are liable , whether it can or canot be proved that they act

L: in concert.
P: in concent

L: All illegal acts are to be deemed parts of the Same
P: Al ilegal acts are to be demed parts of the fame

L: tumult which are committed on the same occasion, or not
P: tumult which are comited on the same ocasion , or not

L: more than [Ten] miles distance from each other in point
P: more than Ten ) miles distance from each other in point

L: of place, nor more than [Ten] days distance from each other
P: of place , nor more than [ Fer ) days distance from each other

L: in point of time.
P: in point of time .

L: Reasons.
P: Reasons .

L: 1. This makes it the interest of all persons concerned in the
P: ( This makes it the interest of al persons concerned in the

L: same tumult to sit a watch upon each other, and do what
P: same tumult to sit a watch upon each other , and do what

L: is in their power to moderate each others violence. By this
P: is in their power to moderate each others violence . By this

L: means it is subservient to the purpose of prevention.
P: means it is subservient to the purpose of prevention .

L: 2. It also gives a much better chance to parties injured
P: 2 . It also gives a much beter chance to parties injured

L: of obtaining compleat compensation than they would other=
P: of obtaining compleat compensation than they would other

L: :wise have: and making the damage fall upon the au=
P: : wise have : and making the damage fal upon the ar=

L: :thors.
P: thers .

L: 3. It facilitates the detection of offenders; by making it
P: 3 . It facilitates the detection of ofenders ; by making it

L: the
P: the

L: 44
P: 4

L: few drops from it to save this worthy gentleman.
P: few drops from it to save this worthy gentleman :

L: If it be in the power of virtue to give a claim to
P: If it be in the power of irtue to give a clain to

L: mercy, has he not virtue to comm command it?
P: mercy , has he not virtue to corm comand it .?

L: This faith, his hope, his charity, do they not all
P: His faith , his hope , his charity , do they not al

L: center in great persons?
P: center in great persons ?

L: Speak to him then, my Lord, once more: _
P: Speak to him then , my Lord , once more : _

L: say to him any thing that will make him easy.
P: say to him any thing that wil make him cary .

L: Show him how right and wrong depend upon existing
P: Thew him how right and wrong depend upon existing

L: circumstances: _ whisper to him that all this Ma-
P: circumstances : _ whisper to him that al this Ma-

L: -chiavelism for throwing prisoners upon Counties
P: -chiarclism for throwing prisoners upon Counties

L: was a mere make-believe: satisfy him that nothing
P: was a mere maken believe : _ satisfy him that nothing

L: can be a matter of more profound indifference to
P: can be a mater of more profound indiference to

L: any body than it is to great persons in what Jal
P: any body than it is to great persons in what fal

L: Jail, or Hulk, or improved Colony, and in what numbers,
P: Jail , or Huth , or improved Colony , and in what number ,

L: human creatures starve or poison one another, so that
P: human creatures starve or poison one another , so that

L: there be not a "Panopticon for them to be sent to": _
P: there be not a Panopticon for them to be sento " _

L: remind him, that in the place he has in view, no
P: remind him , that in the place he has in view , o

L: offence can, by any Jail or number of Jails, improved
P: ofence can , by any jail or number of Jails , improved

L: or unimproved, be ever given to Noble Lords, whose
P: or unimproved , be ever given to Roble Lords , whose

L: veto, when they are pleased to pronounce it, is so
P: seto , when they are pleased to prmounce it , it to

L: fatal to Acts of Parliament: _ assure him, that neither
P: fatal to Acts of Parliament : _ asure him , that neither

L: by the great person, nor by any other, is the purse
P: by the one great person , nor by any other , is the purse

L: ever taken out of the hands of Parliament, unless for
P: ver taken out of the hand of Parliament , unles for

L: a particular purpose, and to oblige a friend: certify
P: a particular purpose , and to oblige a friend : certify

L: to him, that measures of this sort are disposed of, mo-
P: to him , that measures of this sort are disposed of , mo-

L: -ment after moment, sometimes upon one principle,
P: -ment after moment , sometimes upon one principle ,

L: sometimes upon opposite principles, as the cove
P: sometimes upon oposite principles , as the core

L: convenience of each moment presents them to great
P: convenience of each moment presents them to great

L: minds: explain to him, that when persons are approved of,
P: miends : explain to him , that when persons are aprovety ,

L: & the purpose of the moment is to be seve served;
P: & the purposn of the moment is to be serea seoved ,

L: there
P: there

L: 1.
P: 1 .

L: C
P: C

L: Of Irreparable Personal Injuries
P: Of Ireparable Personal Injuries .

L: I
P: 2

L: Irreparable Personal Injuries are either 1. Irre=
P: Ireparable Personal Injuries are either 1 . fre=

L: :parable Disfigurement: 2. Irreparable Disablement: or 3.
P: : parable Disfigurement . 2 . Ireparable Disablement : or 3 .

L: Mutilation.
P: Mutation .

L: II
P: 1

L: Under Disfigurement is comprised Discolourment.
P: Under Disfigurement is comprised Discolourment ,

L: (A) (B)
P: ba als

L: Irreparable Disfigurement is where in the shape or colour
P: Ireparable Disfigurement is where in the shape or colour

L: of a man's person any unalterable change is produced
P: of a man ' s person any unalterable change is produced

L: the
P: the

L: the effect of which is to render his aspect less agreeable.
P: the efect of which is to render his aspect les agreable .

L: Exposition
P: Exposition

L: 1
P: (

L: [A Shape] As if his nose or ears or lips be split, or
P: [ Thape ] As if his nose or cars or lps be slid , or

L: a deep scar be made in any part of his body: so as
P: a dep sear be made in any part of his body : so as

L: either a
P: either oa

L: upon healing to leave a hollow or protuberance.
P: upon heating to leave a holow or probubesance

L: 2
P: 1

L: [(B) Colour] As if a slight scar be made on any part
P: [ D ) Colur ] As of a slight Sear be made on any part

L: so as to leave neither hollow nor protuberance:
P: so as to leave neither holow nor protuberance .

L: of his body; or any part of his body be marked with
P: of his body ; or any part of his body be marked with

L: an indelible stain.
P: an indelible stain .

L: Main-Text.
P: Main TSeat .

L: III
P: (A )

L: (A)
P: A

L: Irreparable Disablement may either be compleat
P: Ireparable Disablement may either be compteal

L: B
P: 1

L: or incompleat: it is compleat where a man is deprived
P: or incompleat ; it is compleat where a man is deprived

L: (C)
P: ( a )

L: of the use of a member altogether: incompleat when he
P: of the use of a member altogether ; incompleat when he

L: is deprived of the use of it in part.
P: is depreved of the use of it in part .

L: Exposition
P: Epion

L: C
P: C

L: Simple Personal Injuries
P: Simple Personal Injuriey

L: Where the quantity of damage which was intended is the
P: Where the quantity of damage which was intended is the

L: very quantity which eventually ensues, the act may be said
P: very quantity which evertualy ensues , the act may besaid

L: to be adequately intentional with respect to its conse-
P: to be adequately intentional with respect to its conse =

L: -quences; when not so much, inadequately; when more,
P: -quences ; when not somuch , in adequately ; when more ,

L: more than adequately
P: morethan adequately

L: You intended for instance to strike the porter,
P: you intended for instance to strike the porter .

L: whose leg you have broken. If
P: whose bf so have token . If

L: If your intention was to strike him in the leg in such
P: If jour intention was to st rke him in the legin such

L: manner that he might be obliged to have it cut off, or if
P: maner that he might be obliged to have it cut of , or it

L: you intended to strike him in the fore-arm in such manner
P: gouintended to stike him in the fore arm in such maner

L: that he might be obliged to have his fore-arm cut off, and the
P: that he might be obliged to have his fore am eut aft , and the

L: case is that the damage he would suffer from the loss of a
P: case is that the damage he would sufer from the los of a

L: leg would not be materially greater or less than what he
P: leg would not be materialy greater or icts than what he

L: would suffer from the loss of a fore-arm, in either of these
P: would sufer from the los of a fore arm , in either of these

L: cases the act was adequately intentional with regard to
P: cases theact was adequately intentional with regard to

L: the quality of damage.
P: the quantity of damage .

L: If your intention was only to hurt him in the fore-
P: If your intention was only to hurt him in the fore

L: arm or the leg without depriving him of either, the act
P: arm or the log without depriving him of either , the act

L: e
P: 2

L: was inad quately intentional: if your intention was to
P: was in adquately intentionals : if your intention was to

L: deprive him of his thigh or the whole of his arm the act
P: deprive him of his thigh or the whole of his arm the act

L: was-
P: wes_

L: 2
P: 3

L: The design was _ that Convicts once sent there should
P: The design was _ that Convicts one sent there should

L: never come back again. The plan, if there had been any
P: never come back again . The plan , if there had ben any

L: such thing, about the return of Convicts, would have been
P: such thing , about the return of Convicts , would have ben

L: dictated either by what I call justice (in which case it would
P: dicdtated either by what I cal justice ( in which case it would

L: have run counter to the design) or by the supposed profitable
P: have run counter to the design or by the suposed profitable

L: injustice. On the former supposition, arrangements would have been
P: injustice . On the fomer suposition , arangements would have ben

L: taken in the first place, for preventing the emigration of each
P: taken in the first place , for preventing the emigration of each

L: Convict before the expiration of his legal terms of punishment_
P: Convict before the expiration of his legal term of punishment -

L: in the next place, for affording him the means of quitting the
P: in the next place , for afording him the means of quithing the

L: Country immediately after _ if such should be his choice: _ ar-
P: Country imediately after _ if such should be his choice : ar

L: -rangements, if not of the positive cast, at any rate of the negative
P: rangements , if not of the positive cast , at any rate of the nega-

L: viz: by removing from that time forwards whatever
P: tive vay : by removing from that time forward whatever

L: obstacle might till then have been opposed as such to his escape.
P: obstacke might tel then have ben oposed as such to his excape

L: Whatever had been the term of punishment fixed by each man's
P: Whatever had ben the term of punishment fixed by each man ' s

L: sentence _ fourteen years _ between fourteen years and seven years _
P: sentence _ fourtern years betwen fouren years and seven years

L: seven years or any shorter term _ care would have been taken at
P: seven years or any shorter term care would have ben taken at

L: any rate, that from and after the expiration of it, his return
P: any rate , that from and after the experation of it , his return

L: should not be opposed by any positive and_factitious obstacle, the
P: should not be oposed by any positive and factitious obstacle , the

L: the effect of which would be to render it more difficult from this
P: efect of which would be to render it more dificult from the

L: new spot than it used to be from the old spots, to which this
P: new spot than it used to be from the old-pots , to which this

L: new discovered one was now substituted. _
P: new discovered one was now substibuted ._

L: Not to oppose, or suffer to be opposed, any obstruction to the
P: Not to opose , or sufer to be oposed , any obstruction to the

L: return of a de jure emancipated Convict _ to take measures for
P: return of a de jive emancipated Convict to take measures for

L: rendering it neither more nor less easy than under the old
P: rendering it neither more nor les easy than under the old

L: system, or, if that could not be done, still easier _ one or other of
P: system , or , if that could not be done , stil casies _ one or other of

L: those distinguishable lines of conduct would (in my humble
P: those distinguishable lines of conduct would ( in my humble

L: conception) have been the line of justice: which of them (since
P: conception ) have ben the line of justice : which of them ( since

L: no one of them was pursued) is scarce worth arguing about.
P: no one of them was pursued ) is scance worth arguing about

L: There remains the line of supposed profitable injustice _
P: There remains the line of suposed profitable injustice

L: of
P: o

L: shall still be accounted justifiable self-defence
P: shal stil be acounted justitiable self-defence

L: [(B) Uncertain efficacy] As if in the case just mentioned it hap=
P: [ ( ) Uncertain eficary ] ] As if in the case just mentioned it hap

L: :pened that you were much weaker than the assailant; inso=
P: : pened that you were much weaker than the asailant ; inso=

L: :much that it would have been doubtful whether with the less
P: : much that it would have ben doultful whether with the les

L: brain.
P: Chein

L: From this review then it appears, that
P: Fromthis ocirew hen it opears , that

L: in paving the way to the consideration of
P: in paving he wag to the confideration of

L: municipal Law, our Author has spent
P: muniehal Law , our Author has pact

L: supposed
P: suposed

L: much time in explaining the nature &
P: mutime in explaining fre faturer .

L: Properties of Laws which do not exist &
P: Oxrerties of Laws which do notexist e

L: in misapplying those which do: & therefore,
P: in mnisapling those whit do : to therefores

L: that the best thing which a Student of the
P: tad the best thing which a Studeut of the

L: Law can do is to forget all that our Author
P: Luw conde is to foget al that ourlather

L: has hitherto advanced.
P: has butheto adsanced .

L: 25 73
P: an5

L: Note ( ) to p.
P: Not C Dale p .

L: Sydney New South Wales 20th May 1799
P: " Sefres Neir Crisk Wale Sl ta , 179

L: The fatigue to which the Governor of this territory must
P: The faligue to which the Governor of this Servitory must

L: submitt, both mental and corporeal, is far beyond any idea
P: submith , both mental and exporcal , is far byond any afea-

L: you can have of the nature of his duty rendering such fatigue
P: you can have of the nature of his duty oendering such falque

L: necessary in the Commander in Chief.
P: necesary in the Comander in Thief .

L: My former knowledge and acquaintance with this Country
P: My former knowledge and acquaintance with this Countr

L: encouraged me in a hope, which however has in some respects
P: encouraged me in a hope , which however has in ofone respects

L: proved delusive: that I should with ease to myself and with
P: proved delusive that I should , with case to myself and with

L: proper effect and advantage to the public, have been able to
P: proper efect and advantage to the public , havefuen able to

L: not
P: not

L: manage all the duties of my office - But I had been long
P: manage al the duties of my ofice . But I that ben long

L: entered upon it, before I was awakened from that dream of
P: entered upon it , before I was awakened from of that dream of

L: comfort and satisfaction, the prospect of which I had so vainly
P: comfort and satisfaction the prospect of which I had so vainly

L: indulged! The seeds of the vexations which had so disappointed
P: indulged of the saids of those verations which thad so disapointed

L: me, had been sown for a very considerable time; and, being of
P: me , had ben sown for a very considerable time ; and , being of

L: rather a prolific nature amongst such people, had gained so
P: rather of a prolific nature amongst sucf people , had guined so

L: much strength. that it will require immense labour to grab them
P: much strength , that it wil reqaire infrense labour to grul them

L: up by the root. I have persisted in my attempt to that end, and
P: up by the rost , I have persisted inf they atempt to that end , and

L: mean not to change my system; which, be assured, from being cal-
P: mean not to change my sytem ) which , be asured , from being cal

L: -culated to lay restraints upon every species of vice and immorality,
P: -culated to lay restraints upon every species of vice & imorality ,

L: cannot, amongst such character be a very popular one; that however
P: canot , amongst such characterf , be a very popular one ; that however

L: will be a matter of no immediate concern to me; if I succeed only
P: wil be a mater of no infmnediate concim to me ; 1 7f I suced ony

L: in a small degree, to check the growing profligacy and abandoned
P: in a smal degre , to efeck the groving profligacy and abandened

L: turn of the lower classes of the people.
P: turn of the tower clafts of the people .

L: This is a good Country, and will do well: but its progress
P: This is a god fauhtry , and wil do wel : but its progres

L: in improvement would be considerable hastened, could Government
P: in improvement fold be considerably hastoned , could Government

L: be prevailed upon not to overstock us with the worst description
P: be prevacted afsuenot to overstock as with the word description

L: of characters: for, whilst the mass of the people continue to be of
P: of charactere , whilt the mas of the people continue to be of

L: that class, our difficulties will ever be very considerable: the
P: that clasied dificulties wil ever be very considerable : the

L: industrious and well disposed become a continual prey to the
P: indusfious land wel disposed become a contimual proy to the

L: idle and worthless.
P: ily and worthles .

L: person, or body of men who are invested with
P: person , or body of men who are invested with

L: the power of making laws: for that Sovereignty
P: thepower of making laws : for that Sovereignly

L: & legislature
P: Slegislature

L: are convertible terms. So that, our definition
P: are convertible terms . So that , our definition

L: receives little light from the addition of these
P: receives litle light from the adition of these .

L: words: it amounting only to this, that law
P: words : it amounting only to this , that law

L: is a rule of action prescribed by him, who
P: is a rule of action presoribed by him , who _

L: prescribes it.
P: prescribes it .

L: ["It is also, says our Author, a rule, command-
P: [ His also , says our Author , a rule comand-

L: "ing what is right, and forbidding what is
P: "ing what is right , and forbid ding what is

L: wrong." [If You ask our author, what he means
P: -wrong . Of Youash our eurthor , what he means

L: by w right, and wrong, he will tell You, that
P: by wright , and wrong , he wil tel fouthat

L: is right which the law declares to be right,
P: is right which the law declares to be right ,

L: and that is wrong which the law pronounces
P: and that is wrong which the law pronounces

L: to be wrong. So that, here again no new light
P: to bewrong Io that , here again us newlight

L: is
P: is

L: 107
P: 6

L: 16
P: 16

L: C
P: C

L: Frauds relative to the Coin.
P: Frauds relative to the Coin .

L: entirely cut off.
P: entirely cut of .

L: On this account it comes to be the more material to
P: On this acount it comes to be the more material to

L: search out by a circumstantial description the several pre=
P: search out by a circumstantial description the several pre=

L: operations
P: eporations

L: =liminary Acts which a man has occasion to perform, and
P: : liminary Orter which a man has ocasion to perform , and

L: the several preliminary situations it is necessary for him
P: the several preliminary situations it is necesary for him

L: to put himself into, before he can be in a condition to
P: to put himself into , before he can be in a condition to

L: operations
P: operations

L: perform the act intrinsically obnoxious. Of these acts
P: perform the act intrinsicaly obnoxious . Of these acts

L: and situations there may be many which may present
P: and situations there may be many which may present

L: a greater surface; as it were, to observation ( and from
P: a greater surface , as it were , to observation ( and from

L: thence to testimony) than the act itself of Coining: and
P: thence to testimony than the act itself of Coining ; and

L: this even when taken separately; much more when they
P: this even when taken separately ; much more when they

L: come to be added altogether. The more ample then and
P: come to be aded altogether . The more ample then and

L: circumstantial the catalogue is that can be given of these
P: circumstantial the cataloque is that can be given of these

L: preliminary offences, the better chance there is of effecting
P: preliminary ofences , the beter chance there is of efecting

L: the purpose of preventing the principal one to which they
P: the purpose of preventing the principal one to which they

L: are introductory.
P: are introductory .

L: The following string of provisions are calculated in
P: The folowing string of provisions are calculated in

L: some degree to answer that design. They are taken with
P: some degre to answer that design . They are taken with

L: some
P: some

L: 2.
P: 2 .

L: C
P: C

L: Of Matrimonial Desertion.
P: Of Mtaimonal Eesation

L: It will be necessary to define what shall be deemed
P: It wil be necesary to define what shal be demed

L: Desertion, distinguishing it from the case of lawful Absence;
P: Desertion , distinguishing it from the case of lawful Absence ;

L: and what steps shall be taken for giving notice.
P: and what steps shal be taken for giving Motice .

L: Let certain methods be established whereby the Husband
P: Let certain methods be established whereby the Husband

L: and the Wife may be enabled and obliged to correspond with
P: and the Wife may be enabled and obliged to corespond with

L: one another at stated intervals: and let a failure on either part
P: one another at stated intervals : and let a failure on either part

L: for a certain time be deemed presumptive evidence of death or
P: for a certain time be demed presumptive evidence of death or

L: this
P: this

L: desertion. Within the dominions of the state they might be manag=
P: desertion . Within the dominions of the state they might be manege

L: =ed in the manner mentioned in the Book of Procedure. Tit.
P: : ed in the maner mentioned in the Bok of Procedure . Tit .

L: As to foreigners, upon their coming into the country
P: As to Foreigners , upon their coming into the country

L: let them be obliged to declare upon oath whether they are married
P: let them be obliged to declare upon oath whether they are maried

L: or single; and if single whether Bachelors or Spinsters, Widowers
P: or single ; and if single whether Wackelors or Spsinsters , Wdowers

L: or Widows. Of these declarations let Registers be kept, of which,
P: or Widows . Of these declarations let Registers be kept , of which ,

L: previous to their being married, copies should be required to be
P: previous to their being maried , copies should be required to be

L: produced. If married, certificates of the death of the Wife or
P: produced . If maried , certificates of the death of the Wife or

L: Husband. At present these important enquiries are left to the
P: Husband . At present these important enquiries are left to the

L: uncertain prudence of individuals. The declarations above men=
P: uncertain prudence of individuals . The declarations above men=

L: :tioned should be accompanied with some details respecting their
P: : tioned should be acompanied with some details respecting their

L: birth, parentage and last abode; such as may lead to detection
P: birth parentage and last abode , such as may lead to detection

L: in
P: in

L: 2
P: 2

L: upon the abovementioned terms he would engage
P: Upon the abovementioned terms he would engage

L: as follows_
P: as folows .

L: 1st. To furnish the prisoners with a constant supply
P: 1t . To furnish the prisoners with a constant suply

L: of wholesome food, not limited in quantity, but ade-
P: of wholesome fod , not limited in quantity , but ade-

L: -quate to each man's desires.
P: -quate to each man ' s desires .

L: 2nd. To keep them clad in state of lightness and
P: 2d To kep the m elad in a state of lightnes and

L: neatness, superior to what is usual among the lower
P: neatnes , superior to what is usual among the lower

L: classes or even in the improved prisons.
P: clases or even in the improved prisons .

L: 3rd. To keep them supplyed with separate beds and
P: 3d To kep them suplyed with separate beds and

L: bedding, competent to their situation, and in a state of
P: beding , competent to their situation , and in a state of

L: cleanliness scarce any where conjoined with liberty.
P: cleanlines scarce any where conjoined with liberty .

L: 4th. To insure to them a sufficient supply of artificial
P: 14th To insure to them a suficient suply of artificial

L: warmth and light, whenever the season renders it ne-
P: warmth and light , whenever the season renders it re-

L: -cessary, and thereby preserve them from being obli-
P: -cesary , and thereby preserve them from being obli-

L: -ged as in other places, to desist from their work, as
P: -ged as in other places , to desist from their work , as

L: well as from suffering from the inclemency of the
P: wel as from sufering from the inclemency of the

L: weather.
P: wuther .

L: 5th. To keep constantly from them, in conformity to
P: 5.th To kep constantly from them , in conformity to

L: the practice so happily received, every kind of strong
P: the practice so hapily received , every kind of strong

L: and spirituous liquor, unless where ordered in the
P: and spiriturous lequor , unles where ordered in the

L: way of medicine.
P: way of medicine .

L: 6th. To maintain them in a state of inviolable though
P: 8th To maintain them in a state of inviolable though

L: mitigated seclusion, in small assorted companies,
P: mitigated seclusion , in smal asorted companies ,

L: without any of those opportunities of promiscuous
P: without any of those oportanities of promiscuous

L: association, which in other improved prisons disturb
P: asociation , which in other improved prisons disturl

L: if not destroy whatever good effect can have been expected
P: if not destroy whatever god efect can have ben expected

L: from solitude. 7th. To
P: from solitude .97th To

L: C
P: C

L: 2.
P: 2

L: Offences against Justice.
P: Ofences against Justice.

L: particulars have concurred, in that case Justice cannot
P: particulars have concured , in that case Justice canot

L: but have been properly administered. In any case let
P: but have ben properly administered . In any case let

L: any of them have failed, in that case Justice cannot
P: any of them have failed , in that case Justice canot

L: have been properly administered. There cannot therefore
P: have ben properly administered . There canot therefore
