L: He rose from his breakfast-nook bench
P: He rose from his biealfort-nod bench

L: and came into the livingroom , where
P: and come into the livimgronm , were

L: Heather and Steve stood aghast at
P: Meatler and Meve Hod agpan at

L: his entrance . He came , almost falling
P: His eulance . He cone , aho foling

L: forward in an ungainly shuffle , neck
P: forvwad in au engoinly shufle , neck

L: thrust out , arms dangling loosely .
P: ali out , arus dlonghing losely .

L: Then , abruptly , he drew himself up
P: Then , alomptly , he dlrew liusef up

L: and walked on the very tips of
P: and walked on te very lips of

L: his toes . He stretched his arms
P: his loes . He sheicfed his cuey

L: over his head and yawned agape ,
P: oner his leod and youned ogope y

L: drawing-in great breaths that
P: drowing- in gred bealy 1hor

L: became great sighs of ecstacy .
P: become dicod walsad estaird

L: " They have come ! " he said reverently , gripping his
P: tThey have come ! " he said roverently , griping his

L: hands together between his knees and leaning
P: hands together betwen his knes and leaning

L: forward . " Isn't it a glorious thing ! Long awaited
P: forword . " Br't it a glorious thirg ! ( ong awoited

L: transcendent event , the exalted desire of all
P: transcendent event , the exalted desire ofal

L: mankind through all ages ! The Kingdom of the
P: mankind through al ages ! The Kingdom of the

L: Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes
P: hind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes

L: upward and shook his head slowly from
P: upward and shok his head slowly from

L: A superfluous precaution for there was no other car
P: A superfluos precaution for there was no other car

L: abroad ; and no pedestrian to cross his path nor to wait
P: obroad ; and no pedestrian to cros his path nor to wait

L: at an intersection for the light to change . At his
P: at an intersectia for the lighet to chaoge . At his

L: apartment he garaged his car and then stood
P: apartuent he garoged his car and then stod

L: listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the
P: listenins in the uiglt . Listening in rain. For the

L: earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart
P: earte hbad lost its lifer-tewpo , as tho loart

L: Deadly stillness , deadly portent !
P: Deadly stilnes , deadly portent I

L: Steve awakened early and switched on
P: Bsteve akened early and svitched on

L: the radio , which he kept tuned to CBO.
P: the racdo , which he kept tined to C80 .

L: The set lighted-up but gave only a low
P: The set lighted-up but gave only a low

L: buzzing sound . He had just finished
P: brezing sound . He had just finished

L: shaving when it came on , with a flat
P: shaving when it came cny with a flat

L: voice repeating : " This is BBC calling
P: voice repecting : " This is #8x caling

L: ... this is BBC calling ... "
P: i ie is te caling . .

L: After what seemed an undue period of repetition , the voice
P: Oeur whad reaned ae endue peried of repectitin , the wice

L: went on to describe the landing of the Thetan colony
P: went on to dlescerste the landerg of the Phctern codory

L: in Sussex , in all its obscene details . Then the radio
P: in Jusex , in al its obsene delails . Then the raeio

L: went dead again , and Steve had no stomach for
P: went tead again , and Iteve hnd we stomach fr

L: breakfast . It was a beautiful day , as firsts-of-June
P: treakfusl . It wes a beantiful day , as frols-of - Jume

L: should be . Steve got out the car and traversed the
P: should be. Theve got out the car and trewersed the

L: same empty streets as he had the night before ,
P: tase eurply strects as he had the nighl befose ,

L: to keep an appointment with Heather .
P: to hep ape apointment with feather .

L: Coming around the great mass of the Chateau
P: Coming aound the great mas of the Chatean

L: Laurier , he braked to a screeching stop . A
P: hanier she baket to a sreching olop . A

L: flying saucer was tilting and dipping over
P: flying sancer was tiling and diping over

L: the War Memorial . There was a deep
P: the war Memoial . There was a dep

L: whirring sound , and a high-pitched hissing
P: whiving sound s and a ligh-pitched lising

L: overtone that sang in his ears with an
P: overtoue that sangy in his ears with an

L: almost painful sharpness . He reversed and
P: almost painfiul sharpners . He reversed and

L: turned back on McKenzie Avenue .
P: trned backe on Mr Wenge Cvenme ,

L: " The Thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to
P: " The Phelans , " he said , " are presumably here to

L: take charge , as it were , of the minds of the
P: take charge , as it were , of the miands of the

L: people - who are probably falling all over them-
P: people - who are probably faling al over them-

L: selves in their zeal to get their orders and to carry
P: selves in thetr geal to get thein onders and to cany

L: them out . Just what these orders will be , we don't
P: them ont. Just what these onders wil-be , we don't

L: know . Now , because of prior hypnosis we have es-
P: tnow . Now , becauce of prier hyprosts We have es-

L: caped Thetan subjugation . This time . But we no
P: caped Thetan rubjugation . This time . But we no

L: longer have any immunity .
P: longen have any emunety .

L: There is just a hope that we may uncover
P: There is just a hope that we may ncover

L: some weakness , and find a way of fighting
P: some weaknes , and find a way of figting

L: back at them . " Heather agreed , and suggested
P: back at them . ' Yeather agred , and ougected

L: that they use Dan as a specimen demonstra-
P: that they use Dan as a gpecimen demousta-

L: ting how the Thetan machinations had been
P: ting how the Phatan machinations had ben

L: working out . It occurred to Steve that this may
P: working out . It oecurved to Steve that this may

L: not have been entirely an objective suggestion
P: not hae ben eutrely an ablective oupgeation

L: on her part ; but he thought it a good idea
P: on her part , but he thought it a god idea

L: There can be little doubt that if the
P: Theme can be lithe douke that if the

L: Thetans discover our mental independence
P: Thetoins discoves os mantrl independence

L: they will promptly give us their hypnotic
P: they wileprobably give us their hypustic

L: treatment . If we can avoid undue
P: treatesent . If we cans evoid in he

L: prominence , it may be that we can
P: prominence , it may be that we ean

L: move about pretty freely without
P: move about punty fe be witlont

L: detection . If we can - well , then we
P: detection . Iue can - wel , them we

L: may be able to promote our own
P: mry he able to promste our

L: interests . What those interests
P: inferests . Whal those infercets

L: are , beyond personal security ,
P: are , beyound persond secmrite ,

L: I haven't a clue ; but , who knows ,
P: I haul " clce ; but , who lenouws ,

L: we may form the nucleus around ...
P: ue man.-om the oustursarond .

L: When he finally beckoned to them to enter , the action
P: When he findly becdeoned to them to enter , the action

L: gave the impression of having been thought out and
P: gave the impresion of having ben thought out and

L: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidden , while
P: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidn , while

L: Dan paced the floor . He seemed completely unaware
P: ban paced the flour . He semed complelely unaware

L: of their presence . They just stared at him , turning
P: of their precence . They just stared at him , tuning

L: their heads like tennis spectators as he walked up and
P: their heads like teanis spectators as he walked up and

L: " Now , to summarize what I think our
P: I Now , to sumarise what I think our

L: course of action should be . First , to avoid the
P: course of action should be . First to avoid the

L: Thetans like the plague , for they must not
P: Thetans like the plagve , pr they must not

L: find us out ! Second , to tread pretty warily
P: fnd us out' secand , to tread prety wority

L: among our own people , finding out just how
P: anong our own people , finding out juot low

L: much freedom we can take with safety .
P: tud frecdom we can tako withe safely ,

L: And third , to study these damned Thetans .
P: And thind , to shudy these dauned Thetons .

L: We must learn all we can about
P: We nust learn al we con about

L: So they proceeded to see if the coast
P: So they proceded to se if the coast

L: was clear . The street was quiet and
P: was cloar . The stret was quiet and

L: deserted , and there were neither sight
P: desterted and there ere neither sigh)

L: nor sound of flying saucers . So they
P: nor sond of flying sancers So they

L: ventured forth and made their way on
P: wentured forth and sade their way on

L: foot to Dan's house . Dan came
P: fot to Dai's house . Dan cams

L: to the door at their ring but neglected
P: to the dor at their ring but neplected

L: to offer any greeting . He was deeply
P: to ofer any peting . He was deaply

L: preoccupied , and it seemed that the
P: preocupied , and it semed that the

L: ringing of a doorbell was to him
P: vinging of a dorbel was to him

L: a new and strange phenomenon .
P: a new and strange pheorsenon .

L: His whole attitude was a mixture of
P: His whole atitucle was a mirture of

L: impatience pending an awaited
P: impatience penclivg an auaitel

L: communication and of a vague
P: comenication and of a vague

L: perplexity respecting his surroundings
P: perplesity respecting his suroudings

L: and the purpose he was to serve .
P: and the puspose he was to serve .

L: Finally , being so obviously on their own ,
P: Finaly , being so abriorsly on their oury

L: Heather and Steve tried to make themselves
P: Heather and Sleve thiel to mcko themselves

L: at home . Steve switched on Dan's
P: at home . Steve seritched on Fan 's

L: powerful , world-wide radio and systematically
P: power ful , world-wicle radio and gs tematicaly

L: turned the tuning knob through all the
P: tnel the kuing lnob thrauyh al the

L: tuning points of the world's great radio
P: tnina pointe Oftke wortel s arent sclio

L: They followed him to a city bus stop on Carling Avenue , where
P: They folowed him to a cily louw sthop on Carling Areme , where

L: he waited . The bus stop was a deserted island on an empty street .
P: he waited . The les stop was a deseted isdand on a supty strect .

L: But not for long , for soon pedestrians and cars flocked upon
P: But nd for long , for sompedertians and cas flocked upou

L: the Avenue from its many tributary streets . It might have
P: the Aveme froum its many tri lunary strects . It might have

L: been a normal business-day bustle , except for two anomalies .
P: bem a norual burinea-day lute , encept for two anomalies .

L: First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone
P: First , it was sunday morning , and , second , everyout

L: walked , or drove , or waited as a person possessed of
P: wathed , or dove , or waited as a person posesedof

L: a single all-exclusive purpose .
P: a siegle al-exclusive pupuse .

L: After a long wait a bus appeared and they
P: cfter a long wint a bus apeared and they

L: followed the beaming Dan aboard , taking
P: folowed the Ceuring fien abourd , taking

L: seats some rows behind him . Steve was
P: sects tome rows betind him . Skece wias

L: beginning to find the stereotyped , flattish , happy
P: begiming to find the sterechged , tletish , hapey

L: faces very disconcerting ; and looking at
P: faces very diconmerting , and loking at

L: Heather he found a welcome relief in her
P: Hleather he found a relome reied in her

L: relatively long doleful one
P: relutively Eny clolefl one

L: Then he would go back to Plato for a final spell of
P: Then he would go back to Pato for a fnd spel of

L: real days and would return to New York in late
P: real days and would retuwn to New Yoek in late

L: January or early February . Angelina might be a
P: Janary or ealy Flamary . Angelina might be a

L: little sorry if we were not back for Christmas
P: litle soey if we were not back for Christ mas

L: as arranged , but he consoled himself by
P: as arangeh , but he consded himsef by

L: thinking that he and Angelina would have
P: thiuking that he and Anglina would have

L: plenty of time together in the future . And
P: Planty of time together in the future . And

L: Heaven alone knew when , if ever , he would be
P: Heaven aloue knew nehry if ever , he would be

L: back on Moon again , and able to do
P: bade on ton again , and able to do

L: research at first hand into matters on which
P: research at fiust hond into matlers on wich

L: the future of everyone , including Angelina , depended ...
P: the future of everyoue y including Anglina , depentde .

L: The recovery of his balance was due to the
P: The recovery of his Balance was due to the

L: fact that he was living , virtually without
P: fact that he was Ering , iertualy wilhout

L: expenses , with the people to whom Moke had
P: escrenes , with the people to whorn Nohe had

L: sent him : little people who regarded him as
P: sert hem : liltle neople who negareded him as

L: lucky to have descended from such economic altitudes .
P: lucky to have descended from such economic aludes .

L: Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the Secretariat
P: Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the tecrelarid

L: ( Stamp Department ) while Sally sulked at home .
P: ( stamp Pepartment ) while saly sulked a home .

L: They had been married for six years , but the
P: They had ben maried for six years , but the

L: salary raise , on the expectation of which they
P: salary raise , on the expecdation of which they

L: had done so , had not materialised . " Do you
P: had dore so , had not materialsed . " 0 yor

L: know , I had to send back our bedroom
P: lenow , I had to send back our bedrom

L: furniture in the second year , " she moaned . She
P: fornitere in the seand year , I she moared . she

L: had contacts in political circles , a school-
P: had contacts in poeitical circes , a scdol-

L: friend of hers having married Lester Peron ,
P: friend of hers having maried Lester Peron

L: a Mocrat Senator with a seat on the
P: a Macret Serator with a seat on the

L: ( literally ) all-powerful Rocket Release
P: Lbiteraly ) aele-powerful rodet beleaso

L: Sometimes she took Harry around with her , but
P: Gometines she tok Wary around with her, buf

L: never her husband , a fact he accepted as inevitable . " I guess
P: rever her husband , a fact he acepted as inevitable . '2 ges

L: Sally made a mistake about me , " he said one
P: saly made a mistake abatme ' he said one

L: evening , when he had been left to cook his own meal .
P: eveing , when he had ben leif to coak his ouwn mat

L: All Sally's relations were 4makrodeb now , but Tom
P: Al sul's relhors were tnatradb now , but To

L: was a Static Mib , the middle-income-bracket equivalent
P: was a Static Mib , the midte-incanc-brocked eqcivatent

L: All Aristotle was excited at the time , not by the prospect of the
P: T arestle was exild at the tine , not bey the prospet of the

L: U.S. President's visit , but by a great storm in the photo-
P: U.S. Fresedent's viscd , but by a great shrom in the slotr-

L: sphere of the sun . A matter which on Earth would hardly
P: where of the sure . I mater whah on Earth coud tardly

L: penetrate beyond the minds of astronomers was of general
P: prehranl leyard the mands of asterevers was of genercd

L: interest to the Mos , doubtless because their habitat is
P: untrest inked to 4e tos , doubtles beause their habvita is

L: not submerged beneath a deep natural atmosphere .
P: nod submegs braetha deap ralurah abrostore .

L: One wondered if this greater awareness of the physical cosmos might
P: the wondered if this greter awerenexs of the plyrical cones riglt

L: with time instil the reverence which , on Earth , nature inspires ,
P: with lime instil the revrence which , on Eaith , rature inspires ,

L: especially when one reflected that the rockets over which Mr. Peron's
P: expeialy when one reftected that the rectete over which Mr. Pen's

L: Board presided had it in their power permanently to warp the
P: Band prcsidted had it in their power permanently to way the

L: solar system . True enough , such ultimate weapons had not been
P: sdar syrtem . Torue enough , such wlhimate weapors had nat ben

L: used in the last few wars , but it seemed very probable
P: ued in the lat tede fer wars ,. but it sermed veuy probde

L: that they would be in the next one , Moon and her
P: that they would be in the boet nest one , Neon and her

L: allies being more inferior than formerly to W.C.U. in the
P: olies being more interion then fornsty to 4. C.Il. In the

L: weapons pronounced conventional .
P: Weapons pronounced conventional

L: Lester was not home yet from his formidable
P: Cesteras not home yet from his formidable

L: duties and his wife , in the manner of middle-brow
P: clerties and his wife , in the moner of micdtle-brow

L: wives , romanced about him in his absence . " Lester was a
P: Wives , ramonced about himein his alsence . " lester wesa

L: country lawyer , and we were very small 4microdebs , weren't we ,
P: country lawper , and we were vesy suel I micradebs perenitwve ,

L: Sally " - here she had dropped her voice in homage to the
P: Saly "-here she had droped her waice in hemroge to the

L: economic system : that was reverenced - " when he thought
P: economic system : that wos revevered : " when he theugh

L: we might get GO a bit better if he entered politics .
P: we might get G0 a bit boter if he entered pelities .

L: Know how he did it ? He 's clever on
P: fnow how he did i3 He's clower on

L: the mouth-organ . So when he visited some
P: the mouth-organ . So when he visiterd some

L: craterlet on Face ( ours is an agricultural
P: craterlel on Tacohours is on agriculteural

L: Back-Face area ) the cry would go up ,
P: Bach-Face aroay the cry would go up ,

L: as soon as he had spoken a few
P: as son as he had spohen a few

L: sentences of his speech : ' Cut the
P: sentenes of his spech . ' Eut the

L: politics , Lester , give us something on
P: plifics , lester , give us something on

L: But since starting salaries would depend on grade A
P: But siuce starting sataries would dapend on geade t

L: or B in the finals next May , and since mating
P: r 8 in the finals next May , and since mating

L: prospects would depend upon salaries , scholarship for
P: prespets would depend upon salarins , sohdarhin for

L: these fine young people was closely geared to
P: these fine yous people was dlosely geared to

L: economic and biological ends which , essentially ,
P: econonic and bidogical endos which , espontialy ,

L: were really means . So , seeing them revolve in
P: were realy means . So , seing then reudver in

L: circles , Harry had the feeling that Moke ( or what
P: circdes , Hary had the fefing that Moke Cor whater

L: Moke consciously or unconsciously symbolised , any-
P: Mole consciously, orunconscintly syntdised, ony-

L: way in Harry's mind ) had these splendid young
P: way in Mary's mind ) had these splendid young

L: people by the short hairs , and was diverting them ...
P: people by the stort hairs , cud was diverting them.

L: That 's how he got the votes , that 's how
P: Fhats how he got the votes , that's how

L: we came through to 4makrodeb status and
P: We came trough to Umatradebs status and

L: got all these lovely things " - she waved a
P: got al these tovuely things ' -she woved a

L: plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc :
P: plump hand towards her grand pianos,etos

L: at the same time a door banged - " but don't
P: at the same time a dor banged - " but dori't

L: say a word about it , Lester wants his
P: say a word about it , lester wants his

L: mouth-organ to be forgotten now . The time
P: mouth-organ to toe forgoten now . The time

L: has come for him to be taken seriously
P: has come for him to be tatken seriousty

L: Peron entered , a large man , who had once been
P: Per. exterad , alorog man luto had once ben

L: handsome but was now seedy-looking , a sufferer
P: hondsone but nos now saedy-loking , a suferer

L: from stomach-ulcers . In the Back-Face tradition he
P: from stomach-wloers . In the Bock-Face todtien te

L: wore , and kept on indoors , a fifty gallon hat . Harry was
P: hore , and hept on inolors, a fity aitor hat- Hhry was

L: prepared for something unpleasant , for this was
P: prepared for something enplecsant , for this was

L: the Senator who had annoyed the United States
P: the Senator who had anoyed the Uinited States

L: by bragging how he had once won a trick from
P: by trosging how he had once mon a trich from

L: W.C.U. by threatening to loose off one of his
P: W.C.L. by threatening to lose of one of his

L: rockets ( an admission which would scarcely help
P: rockets lon acdmision which mould scorcely telp

L: bluff to succeed the next time ) and , lately , by
P: butf to saced the next tine Jand , lately , by

L: saying that if Mo land-troops had to come to the aid
P: sayirg that if Molond-trops had to came to the gerid

L: of the O.G.O. contingent in the Panama region ,
P: aftoe Rsusnsadiad ia tleacarbecisd

L: But privately he turned out to be as friendly as
P: But privately he tured out to be as friandly as

L: Mr. Wise the tube manufacturer , to have the same adolescent
P: Mr. Wlr the tuke manstrctuer , to hae to sare alolent

L: openness and freshness , though perhaps not the same
P: apenres and frehnes , though perhaps not the sore

L: maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer
P: moturity .Ore romemberad that he was a lauyer

L: by training , and suspected that the points he made
P: by training , and suspected tot the points ho made

L: so sharply in international politics were as abstract
P: so shrorply in international politics wers as obctrot

L: to him as those a lawyer makes in a court
P: to him as thoe a lowyer makes in a court

L: The motive would be the same in both cases , to
P: The motive would be the same in both cases , to

L: serve this home of his , in which his heart lay .
P: serve this home of hisin which his heat lay ,

L: Here the rocket man's charm was disarming . Yet
P: Here the rocked man's charm was disarming . Gel

L: when the time came to leave , Harry felt as de-
P: when thetime came to leave , Hary fel as de-

L: pressed as when he left Mrs. Halliday's office ,
P: presed as when he left Mrs. Ialiday's ofice ,

L: exactly a month ago . If even Mo statesmen only
P: exactly a month ago . If even Mo statemen only

L: did what they had to do to get GO on an expan-
P: did whal they had to doto get (0 on an expan-

L: ding scale , and left the sum-total of their actions ,
P: ding seale , and left the sum-tofal of their actions ,

L: and their lunar and earthly repercussions , to luck
P: and their kunar and earthly repercusions , to Luche

L: ( or to Moke ) , there was a vacuum where there should
P: Cor to Mole , there was a vacum where there should

L: be a centre of trust , responsible for the maintenance
P: be a centre of trus responsible for the mainterance

L: The political life of Aristotle looked more and more
P: The political life of Aurutotle Coted more and more

L: like a masquerade of business interests in dis-
P: TRe a masquerad of Eurines interats in di-

L: guise which , far from attracting the allegiance
P: quise which , for from altracking the alegiance

L: of free men everywhere , could only repel them .
P: of fre men everywhere , could only repel them .

L: Then what of the cultural life ? Did this per-
P: Then what of the cultural life I Did this per-

L: haps nurture a genuinely civilizing impulse
P: Raps nurture a genminely oilying unypube

L: which might in time become social fact
P: which might in time Cecome social fact

L: and counteract the obsession with economics
P: and counteract the cesion with econoies

L: which had grown up during the Moon's
P: whuch had gron up during the roun's

L: At the centre of each circle stood personnel
P: At the centre of each cirde stoad perounel

L: managers of corporations , together with professors
P: mangers af corporations , together with profears

L: and their filing clerks . The students had
P: and their filing clastes . The students had

L: bought their college education forward and
P: boughl theis colege oducation . forward and

L: were now being bought forward in their
P: were how being tuight forward in thes

L: turn . By comparing personal appearances
P: then . By camparing persoual apearances

L: with university records , the agents of the
P: with niersity records , the sgeatr of the

L: businesses would pick on young men
P: busineses would puck an youy men

L: and women who interested them , and contracts
P: and wosen who in brested thes , ad contrack

L: would be initialled at the end of
P: would be initialed at the end of

L: Stepping out in their white shorts , they looked glad enough
P: Stepring out in their white shorts , Hey lohod e gough

L: to be diverted , however , with the single exception of one
P: to be olvestal , loweres , wit the sugle cxayption of onen

L: worried little man-student who kept getting out of
P: worical (. the man-sludont who toph petling out of

L: step . He looked as if nothing Moke and his
P: shays . te lodal as of nothing Moke and his

L: minions could do to him would ever make him
P: minions could olo to kim wolel ovas maken him

L: GO ; but the reason probably lay in elementary
P: (,O , but the reason probabely loy inelonontasy

L: neurosis and not in some eruption from those
P: neurozis and not in same ereplion firom those

L: deeper layers in the human psyche which are
P: choyer layers in the hamon psyehon which oen

L: So once again the metaphysics were depressing ,
P: So once again the melaphysics were depresing ,

L: and in absolute contrast to the physical display .
P: and in absolute controst tothe physicl display .

L: Mos have an un-American love of parades , and
P: Mos have an un-Americin love of paracdos , and

L: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they
P: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they

L: had to get to pay off their college bills , were naturally
P: had to get of their colege bils , were naturaly

L: putting their best foot forward .
P: puting their kest fot forward .

L: ' Something 's up , ' said Lord Undertone ,
P: " omething's up , ' said lord Indertone ,

L: carefully casual . ' The servants are all on
P: carefuly casusl . " The servents are alon

L: edge ... did you notice ? And the mules
P: edge . did you notice ? And the nules

L: didn't seem to want to get off the raft . '
P: dicdn 't sem to waut to get of the reft . "

L: He peered as it were into the dark secrets
P: He pered as it were into the dark secrets

L: of the jungle . ' Think there 's Indians
P: of the jungle . . Mhink there's Indiens

L: about ? ' It was most certainly an eerie
P: about ? . " It was most cextainly an erie

L: night , exceptionally brilliant and strange ,
P: night , exceptionaly brilient and strange ,

L: for in the proximity of the mountains ,
P: for in the prorximity of the mentrins ,

L: whose presence I could almost smell ,
P: whose presence I could semost suel ,

L: ' Impressive , ' Lord Undertone said , gazing reverently
P: "mpresive : lord Undertone said , gozing revewently

L: on the cosmic handiwork . ' All those stars . But I 'm
P: on the cosmic handiwork . ' Al those stars . but I 'm

L: a bit earthbound tonight , Trout . I 've got a queer
P: a bi7 earthboud tonigft , Proat . I 've got a guer

L: feeling , like I always get when something
P: feling , like I always get when soething

L: sensational 's going to happen . There 's things lurking
P: sesarianal's gaing to hapen . There's things lrking

L: if you ask me . Might be jaguar , might be ...
P: if you ask ne . hight be jaguar , might be .

L: Hope I die kind of composed , Trout . I mean you can't
P: Hope I dis kind of compored , Front . I mean you cani't

L: imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking ,
P: imagine the Christian martys tristing and shrieking

L: no matter how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a
P: to mater how bad it felt , the fire you knaw , or a

L: lion munching , or arrows where it hurts most . Or
P: Cion muching,or arows where it hurts most . Or

L: can you . Look over there . ' He pointed to the
P: can yau lodke over there . ' He pointed to the

L: shadows beyond the river . ' Something moved . '
P: shodous beyend the riter . ' Something moved . "

L: ' Bottle-Foot , my lord . ' ' Bottle-Foot ? ' His lordship
P: Batile - Fot , my Lond . ' Batle Feat ?' this lordship

L: may have thought I had become unbalanced
P: may have thought I had beasme unbalaned

L: through fear . ' A character Mr Gilberto mentioned
P: thraugh for . ' A olarater Mr filberto mentioned

L: to other day , my lord . A being of whom
P: Io oth other day , my lard . A being of whom

L: the forest Indians are said to be mortally
P: ther forsest Iudians are sait to be martaly

L: afraid , with a hoof shaped like the heel
P: efraid , with a frof shaped like the hel

L: of a bottle . If your lordship will excuse me
P: of a botle . If your lardshig wil exaense me

L: Small , repulsive creatures they were ,
P: Sunal , repulsive creatures they mere ,

L: with black , matted hair and a striking
P: with blaek , moted hais and sfriking

L: resemblance to the shrunk heads we had
P: resemblance tothe shiunt heads we had

L: gazed at recently ; and I have no
P: garzed at recently , and I heve no

L: hesitation in saying that they would have
P: hasitation in saying that they would have

L: made an end of us but for an intervention
P: mnade an end of uo but for an infervention

L: so unexpected , so unusual , that only the
P: so unesxpeated , so nusual , that onfe the

L: necessity of rounding my narrative
P: necusity of rounding uny norative

L: compels me to mention it .
P: compeds me to menfian it .

L: I had a distinct impression that the
P: I hada distinct impresion theat the

L: hut had recently been cleaned and
P: but hack recutly hen cleaned and

L: prepared for visitors . Mrs Caine said
P: prepered forvisiters . Mis Caine said

L: we were to go no further unless and
P: we were togo no further ules and

L: until we were sent for , confirming
P: unti I we were sent for , confirning

L: another impression that became more
P: another impesion that becane more

L: and more definite , namely , that
P: and more depinite , naunty , that

L: she was in touch with an invi-
P: she was in touch with an isvi-

L: sible source of authority .
P: sible saurce of aitharity .

L: Sally and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely
P: taly and of course Mrs Eptinms , for surely

L: Mr Septimus stood in the same case as
P: Mr Septines stod in the same case as

L: myself ? But was it so ? I allowed myself
P: mysely ? But was it so? I alawed myself

L: to entertain for an instant the idea , the
P: to entertern for an nstent the idea , the

L: strange , the unwelcome , the almost
P: strange , the euwelcom , the dlmorst

L: inconceivable idea , that Ariadne's arrival
P: inconveniarcatle iclea , bat Ariadue's arival

L: would be inopportune ; and with the idea came
P: would be ineporture , and with the idea came

L: a somewhat vulgar impulse , which I refused ,
P: a somewhat rlgar mpuls , de which I refuesed ,

L: to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs
P: to wotch Mr Septinus more closely , Mir

L: Caine too and Mr Gilberto who would ...
P: Caine to and Mr Gilert who would .

L: But all three were to the casual
P: But al thre were to the casual

L: observation I permitted myself unruffled ;
P: observation F permited myself unrufled ,

L: Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very
P: Mr Septinus reserved and certainly very

L: thoughtful , but that was his habit . Indeed
P: thonghtful , but that was his habit . Inded

L: we were all invaded by a most tranquil
P: we were al ineaded by a most trangurtl

L: mood . Even the Indian servants relaxed , knowing ,
P: mod . Even the Indian sevants relared , bowing ,

L: so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and
P: so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and

L: savage tribes never approached this region : at
P: savage trles never aproached this region : at

L: any rate they remained with us , perhaps
P: any rak bey remained with no , pelaps

L: for such protection as our presence , or Mrs
P: for sucth prodection as our presence , or firg

L: But after what Mrs Caine had said it was never
P: But after whal tis Canhe had maid it was never

L: far from our minds that at any moment we were
P: far fram cur minds tal ot arny mament we ware

L: to receive a summons . I could see that Mr Septimus
P: to receive a smars . I caned se that fr Septrihmns

L: was impatient for it . This afternoon , then , we climbed
P: was impatient for it . Tais afternon , taen , we cainbred

L: a promontory , a mass of clean rock crowned with
P: a promantng , a mas of clean roa cransned weith

L: trees and bushes , that stood well out over the lake .
P: tres and busores , that sleod we ant onser the eare .

L: NO ONE has ever satisfactorily explained how a
P: 1ONE has i satisfactorily axplamid how a

L: single-decker Welsh bus could have got
P: simgl-checker Walsh bus could have yet stself

L: itself into orbit . Shooting up over the pass a bit
P: into obst . Shoting up as the pas a brf

L: too carefree , and becoming airborne ?
P: to cavifus , and becoming aiobouns R .

L: Caught by a sudden gust of wind ? A
P: Cought bya suden gust of wind 2 A

L: combination of the two ? No one seems
P: combination of the to. ? No ous serms

L: to know . But the fact remains that get
P: to know . But the fart vimains that git

L: itself into orbit it did .
P: toulf into orbrt it ot i nd .

L: And a fine old fuss there was about it , too .
P: And a fins old fos ther was obout it , 1ey

L: Here are the known facts . On 10th July ,
P: thio ar the hown facts . On l6th Joly ,

L: the bus , the 2.20 from Dinas to Llangrwl ,
P: s, th 2.6 from Dinas to lengent ,

L: left Dinas at two-thirty-five as usual .
P: loft Prsces at two-thirty -foue as usral

L: Aboard , apart from the crew , were Mrs. Megan
P: Aboard , aport from the cvow , we Mrs. Megan

L: Thomas and her five-year-old son Cadwallader ;
P: Thomas ard hew fioe-year-old son Cadurtladw

L: pretty little Morfydd Owen ; Mr. Stanley Hayball
P: prty letle Merfold Durn , Mr. Stuntey Hasbel

L: and Miss Ethel Yates , hikers from
P: cnd tAd . Mis Ehl TIates , hilus from

L: Birmingham ; Price the Provisions ; and the
P: Buinghum ; Price Mhe Prorisions ; and the

L: Yes , the bus set out from Dinas . So much
P: Yes , the hus sat out from Drvas . So wouch

L: is established . Ifor Huw Evans , Propr. ,
P: is establishrd . Hor tow Erans , Drepr. ,

L: watched it go from the windows of the
P: watchid it yo from th wincdons of the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. Very interested ,
P: Dinas Motor Dumitrs Co. Dory intrustrd ,

L: Ifor was . For there was his garage hand ,
P: Yor was . For thas wis his yaugr hend ,

L: Dai Pugh , taking a tearful farewell of
P: Rai Pegh , taking a tearfol faurimorl of

L: Morfydd Owen . Morfydd , who had until
P: Merfrd Ouen . Morfyld ,ho had ontol

L: recently been Ifor's typist , but was now
P: recently bon Yor's topisl , hd was now

L: returning to her home town as a
P: etovning to hm hone town as a

L: fully-fledged schoolteacher .
P: Buly - fledyd schod tacher .

L: " But I 'm only going fifteen miles away , "
P: " But I 'm onty yoing tiftion wiles anay , "

L: Morfydd was saying . " Not the end of
P: Mortyeld was saying . " Mot the ind of

L: the world , is it ? " " For me it is , " Dai
P: the world , is it ? " " for me it is ' Brs

L: said wretchedly , wiping his hands on his
P: sard woitchotly , miping his hads on his

L: overalls preparatory to a last embrace . " You
P: orwal proparctory to a last im brecs . ' Yo.

L: will not be remembering a mere garage
P: milnot to nsomberivg uenour cyarays

L: hand when you are lording it over
P: hamd wher you ar tording it our

L: the Mixed Infants of Llangrwl . "
P: the Mlired Iufents of Llongual . "

L: " Silly boy , " said Morfydd . Though she
P: "Bily boy , '" Gaid Norfuld . Though sho

L: could not help wondering whether , now she
P: could not help wondiring whither , now she

L: had qualified as a schoolteacher , poor
P: had qualifed us ascholtacter , poy

L: little Dai was quite the man for her .
P: liAHls Dai was quite the man for her .

L: A nice boy of course . But perhaps in the
P: Anics boy of cours . Bt perheps in the

L: new world she was entering there might
P: wen world she was intering thwe might

L: be boys equally nice , and with far more
P: to bay eqcaly nico , and with far more

L: to offer . The conductor rang his bell .
P: to ofer . The condictor vany his bul .

L: " Good-bye , Dai , " said Morfydd , smiling from the bottom step .
P: " ged-Ay , oai , " said Holged , miling fom ths fortom tp .

L: " Good-bye , Morfydd . " He sought to enfold her in his arms . But he was too late .
P: " gad by . Nefild . o souyht to rifld dor in his arms , But fie ces to lats .

L: She was already up the bus steps , and the bus was away . And Morfydd Owen
P: The wes sealy up the fas seps , ed ther hes was esay . And hefpuld Ohen

L: waving , unkissed , from the window . And Dai , on the pavement , knowing in his
P: seorg , uohived , fom the sindew . Aod odai , on the perinent . Bnorgy in hir

L: heart that Morfydd was leaving him as surely as she was leaving Dinas .
P: Sect that Nolghd sas Reanig hin as serdy is ahr has beyg diuris ,

L: So the bus set out for Llangrwl . But it never reached there ! Somewhere ,
P: 3 Be las, set ont for tlangrs ! . Dut it se, refed thet ' foneuler ,

L: on those fifteen miles of mountain roads , it disappeared from the earthly
P: on there lifuen mabs of monkais vads , 't diayped from the eatly

L: scene . The first intimation that all was not well came when a
P: rere . The first intirmalin that al was not wel crns when a

L: Mr. Isaiah Roberts , landlord of The Traveller's Joy , rang up the
P: Mr. Saich silet, , Rarteod of The Sraveher's dy , seng up the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. to ask what had happened to their
P: seris thler Orasiles 2 . Ne ashe shat hod haypened to thai

L: " Left here all right , " said Ifor . " Two-thirty-five , on the dot . " " It 's
P: i ure al iet , ' said for , " Ser. tily - fur , ontlo at , " 1gt:s

L: supposed to leave at two-twenty . " " Who says so ? " " Your timetable . "
P: sped to lese at two-trerdy . " ' Arhe reys r ! "gar tiniakdly , '

L: " Don't want to take too much notice of those old timetables , " Ifor said ,
P: ' son't wert to taie to mach ndic o thrs old tinsetaltes , " fersid ,

L: reasonably . " Start running punctual and where are you ? People get
P: resondly . ' Yest snserig yunchuel and shat ex you ' Bep.h get

L: left behind , isn't it ? Very exasperating for one and all . "
P: tod Bofoyg third , imt it I Tey exaspeating for e sid al . "

L: " And what are you going to do about it ? " Tendentious , Mr. Roberts sounded .
P: ' Ied snt ax yon goy to Do Bect it I ' Senbertioin , Mr. Plets, ported .

L: " What do you want me to do ? Send out a sheriff's posse , is it ? " No sense
P: " Wat bo yn net wo to do ' Borck aof a Beuild's pros , i t " Ne ses

L: of humour , that Isaiah . He banged down the receiver . Very uncivil . Dropped
P: o Rrnes , thot Saich . A lenyged foe tho seasis , by mnaind , dhged

L: the mask , now , Ifor did . " Dai Pugh , " he bellowed . " Leap on your bicycle
P: #o morfhe , nor , for Nd . ovei Rugh , De lelsed . " zeap onygaurhigets

L: and scour the countryside between here and The Traveller's Joy .
P: ard seour to countryids befren los and the Sarelhai's fty .

L: The two-twenty to Llangrwl has failed to
P: The twotwenty to lanyruh has failed to

L: complete her mission . " Paled , did Dai . For the
P: Complete her mision . " Paled , did Dei . For the

L: two-twenty carried , for him , a cargo more
P: to-twent , cunried , for him, a cango more

L: precious than jewels . Though Mofydd Owen
P: Precious than gewels . Though Mofyold Csen

L: was , as he feared , departed out of his life ,
P: was , as he feared , drpented out of his lfe ,

L: he still loved her dearly . Already , even
P: he stil loved has dearly . Mhready , even

L: as with trembling fingers he fastened his
P: as with trembling tingers he fertened his

L: trouser clips , he was seeing her lying in
P: trouser clips , he was seing her bying in

L: some dreadful ravine , or beset by
P: some dreadful rovine , or beset by

L: robbers , or being whisked off to Emergency
P: robers , or being whisked of to Emergency

L: But even his imagination , luckily for him ,
P: But even his ingination , luckily for tikm ,

L: did not visualise the awful truth - that
P: did not visualise the cutul touth - that

L: Morfyyd Owen was already qualifying for
P: Mortryd Oven was already qualifying for

L: the title of " First Woman to Enter Space . "
P: the title of " First Naman to Enter Spae . "

L: " Where are we going , Mam ? " inquired little
P: " Where one we going , Marnl " inquired litkle

L: Cadwallader when his child mind grasped
P: Ladvulader when his child wind grsasped

L: the fact that the green earth was falling
P: the fact that the gren eanth was failing

L: away at a rate of knots .
P: arey at a rate of kncd s .

L: Where indeed ? Megan Thomas spoke sharply
P: Where inded ? . Megan Thoas spho shariply

L: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .
P: to the conductor , demonding an explanation .

L: But nonplussed , the conductor was . A
P: But wesplused , the conductor ves . A

L: good man , mind ; knew his job . But out of
P: god man , mind ; kenew his gods . Dut out of

L: depth in this particular instance . Fingered
P: dopth in this partrcalor instance . Fingesed

L: his ticket-punch nervously . Peered out of
P: his ticket-punch wervously . Pered out of

L: the window . Went and consulted the driver .
P: the vindow . Went and cansulted the driver .

L: " Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwallader .
P: " Where ore we going 2 " he echoed Cadwalader .

L: " Damned if I know , boy , " said the driver .
P: Damned if Iknow , bey , " said the driver .

L: " But something very untoward has
P: ' But somothing very untoward has

L: happened , if you ask me . "
P: bapened . it yeu , aslue . " .

L: Immersed in the Dinas Advertiser , was the
P: Furmensed in the Divas Ddestiser , was the

L: Rev. Edwards . Now he put down his paper ,
P: Mer. Eduards . Nar he pet down his Ppaper ,

L: folded it , and glanced idly out of the
P: folded it , and glanced idly cut of the

L: window . Looked again , eyes starting from
P: bidow . Locked ogain , eyes starting fran

L: his head . " God bless my immortal soul , "
P: his head . ' God bles mny imortd sat , "

L: he cried . " Never mind your immortal
P: hecried . " Never mind your imortal

L: soul , " said Megan Thomas tartly .
P: soul , " said Megan Thowas tartly .

L: " Here we are traversing the heavens at the
P: " Here we are travensing the learens at the

L: very moment when we should be
P: very mnament when we whould be

L: running into Llangrwl bus station .
P: reuning into Llangl bous statcon .

L: And no one doing the first thing about
P: Bnd no one doing the finst thing about

L: it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you
P: it . " Stung , the conductor wos . " What your

L: expect me to do ? " he inquired , bitter .
P: expect me to do ! . ' he mnquined , biter .

L: " Radio Flying Control at London Airport ,
P: " Radio Flyeing Contrd at Londen Dirport ,

L: is it ? " " Mutual recriminations will get
P: is t 2. . . " Mutual recriminations wilgd

L: us nowhere , " boomed the Rev. Edwards .
P: us nowhare , " beouned the Ror. Eolwards .

L: " It 's all very well , " commented
P: "It's al ery wel , '" cou-mented

L: Mr. Hayball from the back seat .
P: Mr. Mayloal from the back seat .

L: " But Eth and me wanted to be
P: " But Elh and me wanted to be

L: at the Youth Hostel before dark . "
P: at the Iouth tortel befere darty . "

L: Morfydd Owen was silent . But she
P: Moryd Oren was silent . But she

L: looked down at the fast-disappearing
P: torhed down ot the farst-disapearing

L: earth , and it seemed to her that she
P: sarth , and it nermed to her that she

L: would never see her Dai again . And
P: would nener ne her Pai cgain , And

L: though half an hour ago she had
P: though haly an hour ago the had

L: regarded this possibility with
P: regarded this yersibilily with

L: fortitude , it now filled her with
P: yotitude , it mow filed her with

L: dismay . Quietly she began to
P: clisnay , Cuieldy the bigan So

L: Dai , meanwhile , was pedalling
P: Rai , meanwhile , ras pedaling

L: furiously on the road . Not a sign of
P: quriously on the road . Mot a nign of

L: the bus . He passed The Traveller's
P: the bus , the parued The Taveleris

L: Joy . At last he caught up Mr. Roberts ,
P: Joy . At lant he cought up Mr. Roberls ,

L: walking very dogged towards Llangrwl .
P: wvalhing vey doged towards Llanyret .

L: " Afternoon , Mr. Roberts , " he called , polite ,
P: " Aflernon , Mr. Roberts , " he caled , polile ,

L: as he shot past . His spirits were rising .
P: as he shot part . Heis mirils were ting .

L: He had seen no sign of an accident .
P: The had sen no sign of an acident .

L: Therefore Mr. Roberts must have been mistaken .
P: ThalforltMr. Rolests ment lare benmistabeon .

L: He would find the bus safe and sound in
P: Hewould find the bes nefe and roend in

L: Llangrwl , and his dear Morfydd quietly
P: Llangrel , and his dear Merjyd quetly

L: But disappointment awaited him . A
P: Butdisepointuent auraited lim . A

L: restive queue of people in the bus station ,
P: setive quene of people in the bus station ,

L: waiting to be transported to Dinas . And
P: waiting to be transported to Dinas . And

L: when he went to Morfydd's house , all
P: when hewent to Merfyold's house , al

L: he found was Morfydd's mam , working
P: he found was Morfyd's mam , working

L: herself up proper ... Getting dark , now .
P: Lerself un proper . Belting dark , now ,

L: The conductor switched on the lights .
P: The conductor mwitched on the lights .

L: The beleaguered passengers peered out of
P: The beleaqued panenges pered out of

L: the windows . Little to be seen , only a
P: the indours , Ritle tobe ren , only a

L: few lone stars , and the distant earth
P: gew tone stars , and the dirstant sath

L: brooding in her shroud of mist .
P: broding in her shroud of mist ,

L: Megan Thomas sat tight-lipped , nursing
P: Negen- Thomes net tight-Viped , meuring

L: the sleeping Cadwallader . Driver and
P: the sleying Ladualader . Briver and

L: conductor peered ahead into nothingness .
P: cenducdor peared alisad into nothingnens .

L: On the back seat Stan Hayball embraced
P: On the back nseat than Yeyhalembraced

L: his Eth . Morfydd thought of Dai . The
P: his Ete . Morjyd thought of Mai . The

L: Rev. Edwards , standing at the front ,
P: Mer. Edwrards , ntanding at the front ,

L: looked at his forlorn flock . " What
P: Loked at his forhorm flock , " What

L: about a verse or two of Cwm Rhondda ? "
P: abous a verse or lur of Lusm Rhonda ? "

L: he suggested hopefully .
P: whe negented herufuly .

L: They looked at him , sullen . His heart
P: They loked athirm , nlem . Tis heart

L: sank . If the Welsh found the situation
P: nasck . If the Welih found the viltuation

L: too desperate for singing , then the
P: Lo deparate for vinging , then the

L: situation , he realised , must be desperate
P: niteation , he realined , munt be desperate

L: indeed . But suddenly they were roused
P: inded . But ndenly they were rouzed

L: from their lethargy . Something was
P: Aom therlctngy . Comeding wx

L: approaching , faster , faster , a tearing
P: aproaching , farter , farter , a fearing

L: hurrying blur that was past and gone
P: herying bler Rhat was part and gone

L: in a moment , followed by a great
P: ina moment , folowed by a great

L: rush of sound . They waved frantically .
P: rch of nound . They waved franlialy .

L: But the jet aircraft was already miles away ,
P: But the jet cincruft was alveady miles away ,

L: swinging down to the darkening earth . " It
P: swinging down to the dactening earth . ' St

L: passed me at fifty thousand feet , sir . It was
P: pased me at gifty thousand fet , six . It was

L: climbing steadily . " Group Captain Llewelyn Jones , Officer
P: chimbing steadily .' Growp Captain Clewelyn foner , ftian

L: Commanding R.A.F. Station , Dinas , looked keenly at the
P: Conmandig R.P. Station , Diuns , lobed healy at the

L: Flying Officer who had burst so unceremoniously into his
P: Flying Ofticar who had bast so undemoiously intohis

L: office . " And what did it look like , Broughtons ? Some
P: ofice . ' tad what did it lod like , Sroughtors'h Sone

L: Flying Officer Broughtons shuffled his feet .
P: Elying Oficer Broughtens shutpled his fet

L: " Well , actually , sir , it looked like - like a bus .
P: " Wel , actualy , sin , it loked like - like a bus .

L: A single-decker , " he elaborated . Daggers , the
P: I simgl-dedser , " he claborcted . Dogns , the

L: Group Captain looked . " Broughtons , " he said silkily .
P: Eowp Coptein loled . " broughtore , " he sail sitdily .

L: " Didn't they teach you at Cranwell that buses are
P: " Ddn't they teach you af Cronwel that buses ore

L: earth-bound creatures ? Aeroplanes fly , Broughtons .
P: earth-bound creatures h Heroplaes fly , Groughtous

L: Buses crawl . " Very pale , Broughtons was . But
P: Dases crausl . " Vey pale , broughtous wes . But

L: determined . " It was a bus , sir .
P: datrmised if was a beus , 54

L: They 'd got the lights on . There were people inside .
P: they'd got the lights an . These wore paople inside

L: Waving . " Like gimlets , the Station Commander's eyes .
P: Waving . " ihe ginlets , the Station Comande's eyes .

L: " Did you see the indicator board ? " " Yes , sir . " " And
P: " Bld yau se the indicater bond ? " Yes , sik . " " Had

L: what did it say ? Mystery Tour ? " Oh , very caustic , that
P: what ded it say l Myrteng Tour ! ' ch , wry coustic , that

L: Group Captain . But Broughtons stood his ground . " No ,
P: Grase Coptain . But broughtour stot his ground . " Mo,

L: sir . It said Llangrwl . " Llewelyn Jones sat
P: Sir . It simply said Clangil . " Llewelgn gones snt

L: back in his chair . " I see . So you met a bus at
P: tan nt dan en ensorgornh atursct

L: All lit up . Full of people waving as you went past . "
P: Al lit up . Ful of pople woving as yor went past .

L: Suddenly he crouched forward . " Broughtons , if I thought
P: sudanly he crovded forwnd . ' Broughtos , if I thought

L: there were anything in Queen's Regulations to cover this ,
P: Hse were angthing in Cuei's Regeulations focs this ,

L: I 'd have you court-martialled . But I know there
P: I'd have yar covrt-montialed . But I Pnow the

L: isn't , " he ended sadly . " I tried to read the
P: isnt , " he ended sadly . ' I trisl fo read the

L: registration number , sir . But it was getting dark . "
P: registration nanber , siw . but if was gething darl . "

L: He waited . But his commanding officer appeared to
P: te vaited . But his comanding ofer aproard to

L: " Then we are saved , " cried the Rev. Edwards .
P: " Then we are saved , " criel the Rew. ictwands .

L: Shyly , Morfydd Owen produced a block of
P: Shryly , Mortyeld Ouren prodenced a blod of

L: He saluted , and left the presence , very crestfallen ...
P: He salated , and lef the presence , very crestalen . .

L: Time passed . The bus climbed , and went quietly
P: Time pased . The bus climbed , and wert quietly

L: into orbit . Time passed . The Rev. Edwards' pulpit
P: into orbil . Time pared . The Rer. Edwards' papil

L: remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai
P: remained erapty . And so did the arms of Bai

L: Pugh . How could they be otherwise , when his
P: Pugh . Hor could they be ofherwise , when his

L: beloved was circling the Poles at three-and-a-
P: beloved was cixeling the Polos ot thre-and-a-

L: quarter-hour intervals , regular as clockwork ?
P: quarter-hour intepals , regalar as clockwork'?

L: Time passed . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan
P: Time pasted . Everyone said , " Pity aboal Megan

L: Thomas , isn't it , " as though they didn't really think
P: Thomas , isht it , " as though they didn't realy thiak

L: it was a pity at all ; as , indeed , they didn't .
P: it was a pily at al ;, as , inded , they didn't .

L: LOCAL BUS DISAPPEARS announced the
P: BNS DISAPDEARS anounced the

L: Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored
P: Dinas Advertiser . Bat the London papers ignored

L: the whole affair . Ifor Evans reported his loss
P: the whole afair . Tor Evons peporled his las

L: to the police . But they only tut-tutted . " Lost
P: to the police . Bal they only utalted . " Lost

L: a bus , is it . Very careless . " That was their
P: a bas , is if . Very caurles . " That was their

L: attitude . Now if there 'd been a good old accident ,
P: altilude . Now if there'd ben a god old acident ,

L: they could have measured up the road and
P: they could have measured up the read and

L: But losing a bus ! People were always losing
P: But losing a bas! People were always losing

L: things . You 'd be surprised , they said . So it
P: thinas . Youid be surprised , they said . So it

L: seemed , for a time , that the whole affair would
P: semed , for a fine , that the whole afair would

L: be written off as one of those unexplained
P: be writen of as one of those unexplained

L: mysteries , like the Marie Celeste . Then things
P: mysteries , like the Marie Leleste . Then thinas

L: began to happen ... But what about the voyagers ?
P: began to hapen . But what about the royagerst.

L: Well , the Rev. Edwards had taken command . " Our
P: wel , the Per. Edwards had taken comand . " Our

L: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to
P: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to

L: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now
P: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now

L: what does such a person do ? He signals
P: whal does such a person do ! . He signals

L: his position by lighting bonfires or hoisting a
P: his position by lightina bonfires or heisfing a

L: flag on a palm tree . And he tries to ensure
P: Fln on a palm fre . And he fries to exsaure

L: " Can't go lighting bonfires on this bus , "
P: "Can't go lighling bonfires on this tus , "

L: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the
P: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the

L: Company's Regulations . " " Of course not , " agreed
P: Company's Requlations . " Of course not , " agred

L: the minister . " No , we have another way of signalling
P: the minister . " No , we have another way of signaling

L: our position . The driver must sound his horn
P: oaur position . The driver must sound his horn

L: continuously . " Gave him a look , the driver did .
P: continously . " Gave him a lok , the driver did .

L: " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely .
P: " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely .

L: " Do as I say , driver . " Very stern , the reverend
P: ' Do ap I ray , driver . " Wery sitem , the reverend

L: gentleman was . So the driver peep-peeped as
P: gentlerman was . So the dsiver pep-peped ap

L: through empty space . " Thank you , " the Rev.
P: through empty space . ' Thank you , " the Per,

L: Edwards said courteously . " Secondly , we must
P: Edwardf said courteously . ' Seondly , we must

L: pool and ration our supplies of food , if any . "
P: pol and ration our nuplies of fod , if any . "

L: He looked at Price the Provisions , who was nursing
P: He lorted at Price the Provisimg , who was nuring

L: " Now , who has any food ? " he asked hopefully .
P: " Wow , who has any fod ! ' he arsed hopefuly .

L: Stared back did Price the Provisions , unwinking .
P: Stared baed did Price te Prousie unusibiy .

L: " Mr. Price , I think you may be able to help us here , "
P: Mr. Pike , I tinl youmay be able to lelp uis 1se ,

L: said the Rev. Edwards . Price shook his head .
P: said the Per. Edwards . Frice shok his head .

L: " Intended for Plas Newydd , this lot is . Paid for ,
P: " Intended for Plap Neroyold , thislot is . Faid for ,

L: too . " He folded his arms protectively over the basket .
P: to . "' He frlded hit ams protectively over the bat Ret .

L: Mutinous dog , thought the Rev. Edwards , who hadn't
P: Mrinous dog , thought the Per. Edwards , who hadi't

L: enjoyed himself so much since reading Treasure
P: enjoyed frimself no mucd sin a reading ireasure

L: Island . " What have you got in that basket , Price ? "
P: Is lund . " What have yougot in that bastel , Price s "

L: he roared . Quelled , Mr. Price pulled out a grocery
P: he peared . Gueled , Mr. Prie puled out a grocery

L: list , pushed his glasses up on his nose , and
P: list , pushed his glraset up on his more , and

L: began to read . " Six loaves , four pounds butter ,
P: beyan to read . ' Six loares , four pounds buter ,

L: two pounds marge , one tin pineapple , one York ham . "
P: two founds marge , one tin pineapl , one York han

L: Bertram's face was grim . " You think it was the Snort ,
P: Fertran's face was gorim . " Y ou think it wap the suort ,

L: don't you ? " John gave a short laugh . " I did , " he
P: dom't you ? ' Johr gavea short laup . " Iodid , " he

L: said ; " but I 'd better stop thinking that now .
P: said ; " but I 'd beter stop tinling that now .

L: Pericles is fitted with an identically similar one . "
P: Periclp in fiting with an identicaly ninilar one "

L: " So there you are , my dear . " Peggy 's eyes filled
P: ' to there youase , my dear . " Pragy's eyes filed

L: with tears . " It 's so unfair , " she said .
P: writh tears . ' D's nomfair , ' " sho said .

L: " That little beast Robbie Munyard spent six
P: ' That litle beast Robsie men yard spent six

L: months ashore while Pericles was refitting in the
P: mnonths ashiore whil Periels was refiting in the

L: dockyard and now that she 's ready for sea he goes
P: dokyard and now that she's ready for sea he goep

L: sick . Just because he 's an Honourable he can do
P: sick . yust because ho 's an Honourable hr can do

L: what he likes . Anyway , why pick on you to succeed
P: What he lios . Anguay , why picl on you to sucerd

L: him ? " John didn't answer . There was no point
P: Pim ? ' yole didu't ousuer . There wag no print

L: in sharing his discomfort with Peggy .
P: insharing his dliscomfort with Pegzy . '

L: Though your wings and your scars are new ,
P: Though your wings and your scars are new ,

L: you may join us . ' ' I am Lily-yo . We three
P: you may join us : I I am lily-yo . We thre

L: are humans . You are only flymen . We will
P: are humans . You ane only flymen s We wil

L: not join you . ' The Captives grunted in boredom .
P: not join yous ' The Coptives grunted in boredom .

L: The Chief Captive spoke again . ' Always this
P: The Chief Captive spoke again . ' Aways this

L: talk from you of the Heavy World ! You have
P: talk from you of the Heary World ! " You have

L: joined us . You are flymen , we are human . You
P: goined us You are flymen , we are hunan . You

L: I saw several men running down towards
P: I saw several men runing down towards

L: the shack . They were all armed with rifles .
P: the shak . They were al armed with riftes

L: As the nearest of them came round the
P: Ao the nearest of them carme round the

L: shack , his rifle at the ready , I saw it was Nick
P: shot , his ritle at the ready it saw it was Nick

L: Dowd , still wearing his blue check shirt . He
P: Bond , stil wearing his blme check shirt . He

L: came up close , eyeing us suspiciously . " We 've
P: came up close , eyeing us suspicieusty , "he ve

L: come 2a-calling , " I said . " Can't see no reason
P: come Ra-caling , ' I said . ' Canit se no reason

L: for calling , " he said . " Still long as you 're here
P: for caling , " he said . ' Stil lony as youire here

L: you may as well stay a while .
P: you may as wel stay a while .

L: 'Light an' come on in . " We dismounted and
P: light an' come an in . ' We dismounted and

L: one of the miners who 'd come along with
P: one of the miners whod come along with

L: Nick Dowd took our horses off to water .
P: Nick Dond tok our horses of the water .

L: We followed Nick Dowd into the shack .
P: We folowed Nick Dond into the shack .

L: They 'd rigged up a stove of sorts and on it
P: They d niged up a store of sorty and on it

L: a huge blackened coffee-pot steamed . Other
P: a ruge blaclkened cofe-pot steamed . Other

L: miners followed in at our heels . Nick Dowd
P: miners foloved in af our nels . Nik Dond

L: found us a couple of boxes to sit on .
P: found us a couple of boxes to sit on.

L: A small man in bib overalls and a battered
P: A smal man in bi overals and a batered

L: Derby hat fussed around the stove . " 2Ain't
P: Derby hat fused around the stove . " 2 ini't

L: exactly the Ritz Hotel but we 've got our little
P: exactly the Rite Hoter but weive got our litle

L: comforts , " said Dowd . He introduced the men
P: comfarts , ' said 6oud . He introduced the men

L: who 'd come in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick
P: who'd cone in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick

L: Golightly , Swede and the Sodbuster . This last was
P: Colightly , suede and Sodbuster . This last was

L: the little hombre in big overalls . Very soon he
P: the litle hrombore in big crereals . Very son he

L: had tin mugs filled with hot black coffee
P: had tin mugs filed with hat black cofe

L: sweetened with molasses for all and for us
P: srectened with molases for al and for us

L: there were two plates of beans .
P: there were two plates of beais

L: " They gives you the wind , " said the Sodbuster
P: " They gives you the wind ; " sard the sodbuster

L: handing them to us , " but it 's all we got
P: handing them to us , " but it 's al we got

L: as of now , apart from a few sacks of gold
P: as of now , aparl from a few sacks of gold

L: dust . " He winked at his partners . They all
P: dust . ' He winted at his pareners . They al

L: watched us as we ate the beans . Then when
P: watched us as we ate the beans . Then when

L: we 'd finished and I 'd rolled a cigarette
P: we " d finished and I'd roled a cigarete

L: the man called Shorty said , " You were saying when
P: the man caled shorty sand , " you were saying when

L: you came in that 2somep'n happened last
P: yen came in that 2somepi'n hapened last

L: " Yes , " I said . " Something happened all right .
P: " Yes ,' I said . ' Something hapened al right .

L: After you 'd left the meeting , mister " - I
P: After you'd left the meting , mister " - I

L: looked across at Nick Dowd - " someone cut
P: loked acres at Wick Dowd - " reomeone cut

L: down William Appleton outside the Palace
P: down Wiliam Apleton outside the Palace

L: with a shotgun . " I paused and watched my
P: with a sholgum . ' I pansed and watchied my

L: words affect them in their different ways .
P: words afect them in their diferent ways .

L: " That 's sure bad news , " said Dowd , sombrely .
P: " That's sure had news , ' said Dowd , sombrely .

L: " It 2jest about leaves everything wide open
P: " St Rest about leares everything wide open

L: for Mr. Pell and his bunch , " observed
P: for Mr. Pel and his bunch , " Observed

L: The rest of the men there said nothing but
P: The rest of the men there said nothing but

L: you could see they were hard hit . They were
P: yeu could se they were hard it . They were

L: simple men who knew a lot maybe about
P: simple men who knew a lot maybe about

L: digging for gold but were babes in arms
P: diging for gold but were babes in arms

L: when it came to dealing with owlhooters and
P: when it came to dealing with outhoters and

L: desperadoes like Pell and Fenton and the
P: desperadoes like Pel and Fenten and the

L: rest . " I guess we 'd better hold onto the gold
P: rest . ' I ques we' d beter hold onto the gold

L: right 2hyar , Nick , " said the Sodbuster .
P: right ehyar , Nick , " said the sodbuster .

L: " Yeah , " said Dowd dubiously . " 2Mebbe we 'd
P: " Teah , ' said Powd dubiously , " 2Mebe weid

L: better . " Surprisingly Dan Maffrey came in at
P: beter . " Surprisingly Ban Mafrey came in at

L: that point . " If you do , " he said , " you 'll be
P: that point . " If you do , ' he said , " you'l be

L: sure asking for trouble . They 'll be on your
P: sure asking for trouble : They'l be on your

L: necks before you can say ' knife ' . It wouldn't
P: necks before you can say ' knife ' . It wouldri't

L: be the first time they 've held up a diggings
P: be the first time they've held up a digings

L: at gun point either . They 've done it before
P: at gun point either . They 're done it before

L: and got away with it . "
P: and got away with it . '

L: " You 're 2durned tootin' , mister , " said the man
P: " You're Edurned totin ' , mister , " said the man

L: called Roper Smith . " We 've got five rifles among
P: caled Roper Smith : " We've got five rifles among

L: us and a few six-shooters . But most of us
P: us and a few six-shocters . But most of us

L: 2ain't 2eddicated in shootin' . It 'd be a
P: a ai't 2edicated in shoctin' . Etid be a

L: 2massacree , 2yessir . " " If you 'll take a chance
P: emasacre , Eyesir . " " If you'l take a chance

L: on getting your gold to the bank , then we 'll
P: on geting your gold to the bank , then weil

L: abide by what we said at the meeting , "
P: abide by what we said at the meting ; "

L: said Dan . " We 'll watch the stage out of reach . "
P: said Ban . " Weil watch the stage out of reach s

L: I couldn't quite see how all this fitted in
P: I couldi't quite se now al this fited n

L: with Dan Maffrey's aim to avenge himself
P: with Ban Mafrey's aim to arenge himself

L: on the Fenton bunch but still it was a
P: on the Fenton bunch but stil it was a

L: handsome offer so I chimed in too . " That
P: handsome ofer so I chimed in to . ' That

L: goes for me , gentlemen , " I said . " If they do try
P: ges for me , gentlemen , I said . ' If they do try

L: and hold up the stage , it 'll be a couple or
P: and hold up the stage ,itil be a couple or

L: three of them , no more . I reckon we can deal
P: thre of them , no more , I reckon we ean deal

L: ' But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - '
P: ' ut we - ' 'op your stupld talk , wonan ! ' ' We are -'

L: ' Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Appa Bondi said .
P: Be sitent , woran , and listen , ' Band Apa Eondi said .

L: ' We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive . ' Some
P: We know nuch , ' repeated the Chief Captive ' Some

L: things we will tell you . All who make the journey from
P: tings we wil tel yau. Al4 who make the journey from

L: the Heavy World become changed . Some die . Most live
P: the Meavy world becove changed . Sore die. Most live

L: and grow wings . Between the worlds are many strong
P: and grow wings . Betwen the worlds are mamy strong

L: rays , not seen or felt , which change our bodies .
P: rays , not sen or felt , which change our bedios

L: When you come here , when you come to the True
P: When you core here , when you come to the Tiue

L: World , you become a true human . The grub of the
P: World , you becone a trhre heman . The grub of the

L: tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So humans
P: figerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So nurans

L: change . ' ' I cannot know what he says , ' Haris said
P: change . I canot know what he says , ' Maris said

L: stubbornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and
P: stubornly , throwing hiself down . But lily- yo and

L: ' To this True World , as you call it , we come to die , '
P: To tis Tiue World , as you cal it , we come to dis , '

L: Lily-yo said , doubtingly . The Captive with the
P: lily- a said , doubtingly . The Captive with the

L: fleshless jaw said , ' The grub of the tigerfly thinks
P: fleskles jeu said , ' The greits of the tigerfly thinks

L: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' ' You are still
P: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' You are stil

L: young , ' said the Chief Captive . ' You begin newly here .
P: yaung , ' said the chief Captive . ' You begin newly here .

L: Where are your souls ? ' Lily-yo and Flor looked at
P: where are your souls ? " Vily-yo and Flar loked at

L: each other . In their flight from the 4wiltmilt they had
P: each other . In their flight from the asiltuilt they had

L: heedlessly thrown down their souls .
P: hedlesly Hrown down their souls .

L: Haris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !
P: Maris had trampled on his. It was unthinkable !

L: ' You see . You needed them no more . You are still
P: " You se . Hou neded then no wore . You are stil

L: young . You may be able to have babies . Some of those
P: yaung . You hay be alde to have babies . Some of those

L: babies may be born with wings . ' The Captive with
P: babies may be bon with wings . ' The Captive with

L: the boneless arms added , ' Some may be born wrong ,
P: the boneles aris aded , ' Some may te born wrong ,

L: as we are . Some may be born right . '
P: as we are . Sone may be bon night . '

L: ' You are too foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are
P: " ou are to foul to live ! " Maris grouted thy are

L: you not killed ? ' ' Because we know all things , ' the
P: you not Kiled , " ' Because we know al things , ' the

L: Chief Captive said . Suddenly his second head roused
P: Chief Captive said . Sudenly his second head roused

L: itself and declared , ' To be a good shape is not all
P: itself and beclared , ' To be a god shape is not al

L: in life . To know is also good . Because we cannot move
P: in te. To bnow is also god . Becaure we canot nove

L: well we can - think . This tribe of the True World
P: wel we can - thint . This trike of the True wonld

L: is good and knows these things .
P: is god and knows these things .

L: So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo
P: So it lets us nule it . ' Flor and lily-yo

L: muttered together . ' Do you say that you poor
P: nutered together . 'D0 you say that you por

L: Captives rule the True World ? ' Lily-yo asked
P: Captives tule the Pue World ? " lily - yo asked

L: at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? '
P: at last . We do. ' Then why are you captives ? "

L: The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs connected ,
P: The flyuan with ear lkes and thumbs conected ,

L: making his perpetual little gesture of protest ,
P: making his perpetual litle gesture of protest ,

L: ' To rule is to serve , woman . Those who bear power
P: To tule is to serve , uoran . Those who ber power

L: are slaves to it . Only an outcast is free . Because
P: are slaves to it . Only an outcost is fre . Because

L: we are Captives , we have the time to talk and
P: we are Captives , we have the tikme to talk and

L: think and plan and know . Those who know
P: think and plan and know . Those who know

L: command the knives of others . ' ' No hurt will
P: conmand the knives of others . ' ' o hurt wil

L: come to you , Lily-yo , ' Band Appa Bondi added .
P: come to you , lily-yo , ' Dond Apa Gondi aded .

L: ' You will live among us and enjoy your life free
P: " ou wil live aong us and enjoy your life fre

L: ' No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths .
P: W No '" the Chief Captive said with lath nouths .

L: ' Before she can enjoy , Lily-yo and her companion
P: B before she can enjsy , lily-yo and her companion

L: Flor - this other man creature is plainly useless -
P: Plor -this other man creature is plainly useles -

L: must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ? ' Bondi
P: must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ! ' Bondi

L: asked . ' What else ? Flor and Lily-yo , you arrive
P: asked . TWhat else ; Flor and lily-yo , you arive

L: here at a good time . Memories of the Heavy World
P: here at god time . Memories of the Heavy World

L: and its savage life are still fresh in you .
P: and its savage life are stil fresh in you.

L: We need such memories . So we ask you to go
P: We ned such menories . So we askyu to go

L: back there on a great plan we have . ' ' Go back ? '
P: back there on a great plan we have . ' TS0 backs '

L: gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to attack the Heavy
P: gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to atack the Heavy

L: World . You must help to lead our force . ' The long
P: World . Yau must help to lead our force . ' The long

L: afternoon of eternity wore on , that long golden road
P: afternon of etemity wore on , that long goiden road

L: of an afternoon that would somewhere lead to
P: of an afternon that would sonenhore lead to

L: Motion there was , but motion without event - except
P: Meation there was , but notion without event - except

L: for those negligible events that seemed so large to
P: for those negligibte event that sened so lange to

L: the creatures participating in them . For Lily-yo , Flor
P: the creatures partioipating in them . For Vily-po , Plor

L: and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was
P: and Maris there were many events . Chief of these was

L: that they learned to fly properly . The pains associated
P: that they learned to fly properly . The pains asociated

L: with their wings soon died away as the wonderful
P: with their wings son died away as the wonderful

L: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the
P: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the

L: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly
P: light graity became an increasing delight - the ugly

L: flopping movements of flymen on the Heavy World
P: Rloping movement of fiymen on the Meavy Worild

L: Alastair was a bachelor . All his life he had
P: Mastoir was a buchelor . Hl his life he had

L: been inclined to regard women as something
P: ben iclined to regord romen as somedhing

L: which must necessarily be subordinated to his
P: Wuich must necesarily be subordinaled to his

L: career . Now he realised that he was entrusting not only
P: carer . Mot he reali sed that he nas entusting not ony

L: his own life , but Geoffrey's as well , to a strange girl
P: his own wife ,oul beoftey s as rele , to a shonge Gul

L: whom he had never met and on whom after no more
P: Whom he had never md and on whom after nomate

L: than a couple of telephone calls he was
P: than a couple of telephone cals he was

L: prepared to place complete reliance .
P: prepared to place comypcle releance

L: " Good luck , Air Marshal , " she said gently . " I 'll
P: God mck , tr Marsual , " she said geutly . " Dul

L: be waiting for you at the Hotel Roma at six this
P: is be waiting for you al the fatel Rone at six ris .

L: evening - and I shall look forward to meeting you
P: eveing- and 3 sual lok forward to merting you

L: both at midnight . " They might have been
P: beth at midulghet . They ayet navw ben

L: arranging a supper party . Then she rang off .
P: arauging a super pary . Then ohre sng of .

L: Alastair admitted that never in a not altogether
P: trastair aduited thad never in a net altogetrer

L: uneventful life had he come across a girl who
P: uneventfl ife had he come acors apire wno

L: sounded so charming and appeared to be so
P: sounded so charming and apeared to 2 to

L: It was a novel experience . Alastair was
P: It was a novel experience . Mastair was

L: quite unable to explain why he should feel
P: qeit unable to explain vhey he shaild fet

L: so much confidence in her . Once again
P: to much confidence in her . Ohce again

L: she checked back her instructions . It was
P: she cheched back her instructions . It was

L: obvious that she did not fail to appreciate the
P: obriour that she did nut fail to apreciate the

L: faith which he was placing in her and
P: faith whinch he was placing ien her and

L: was prepared to accept the responsibility .
P: was prepared to acept the responpibality .

L: For some reason the orderlies had forgotten
P: For some reason the orderlies had forgeten

L: to switch on the lights ; there was no colour -
P: Io sritch on the higtife , there wre no colour-

L: physical features were distinguishable solely by
P: plipied features were distinpishable soledy by

L: gradations of silvery greyness . Even the snow-
P: cpatstiow of silveng opreqas . Even the sxer-

L: capped summit of Mont Blanc , seven miles
P: caped sumit of Mont plasc , seven nilew

L: below , was not recognisable among the host
P: belew ,wonod receqnianble among the est

L: of lower peaks . The screen of the air-to-air
P: of lover pesake . The scre of the ix-to-ar

L: radar glowed . Occasionally minute spots
P: vader gloved , becasionaly wimte speto

L: flickered across its surface , but there was
P: flickered acres its ourfrce , but there wre

L: In the exceptional clarity he was even able to
P: In theceptional darity he was even able to

L: make a direct comparison between the radar
P: make a direct conparison betwen the radar

L: image and the ground itself . Ahead lay the
P: image and the ground it self . Hhead lay the

L: Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the
P: Phain of hombardy ; to the right , turin ; to the

L: left , Milan . The directional angle of the
P: teft M Mitan . The directional angle of the

L: scanner could be adjusted to cover any
P: scaner could be adjnsted to cover any

L: particular area within its range . Geoffrey
P: particnlar area within its range , Geofrey

L: turned the scale slowly to cover the
P: turned the scake stowly I to cover the

L: ground immediately ahead .
P: groind inmediafely atead .

L: Now , as Alastair reduced the thrust , the
P: Now , as tlastien reded the thrust , the

L: pitch changed as the nose of the aircraft
P: pitch dinged as the nose of the aisoraf

L: dipped slightly . The needle of the speed
P: Niped slighthy . The wedle of the sped

L: recorder swung gently through 8.0 , 7.0 , 6.0
P: recorder aring gently through 8.8 . 9.0 , b.G

L: before coming to rest at 5.0 . " We 're a bit
P: befre coning to rest at 5.8 . " We se a bilg

L: ahead of time , " said Alastair . " We 'll run
P: whest of tine ' , saind Mastrier " tel run

L: in on minimum engine power . " Geoffrey
P: in on mimum engine pover , Gerfrey

L: smiled . Alastair talked of running in when
P: aniled . Hastsin talked of runing in when

L: they were still more than four hundred
P: they mere stil more than foun Lindred

L: miles from their destination .
P: mile from their destintion ,

L: He was able to pick out towns , unrecognisable to the
P: He was able to pick out towne , unrecogrisable to the

L: naked eye , obscured by the ground haze which even
P: naked eye , drcured by the goarnd hose which even

L: on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced
P: on the clearest hight linited angulas vision . He glanced

L: at the speed recorder . It seemed almost incredible that
P: at the spery recoider . It sermed almasl incridible that

L: the tiny white figure of 8.5 against which the needle
P: the ting white figure of 8i5 against which the neiole

L: was resting could really mean hundreds of knots .
P: was resting cony realy mean huiraeds of knots .

L: They were nearing Modena . Geoffrey focused the radar scanner
P: They were nearing Hodena . Geofrey foused the radar scamer

L: on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port .
P: outhe bridge over the Po , bavely forty miles to pote

L: He was able to trace the course of the river ; he
P: the was able to trace the course of the rver ;

L: thought he could recognise the route of N12 ,
P: Rought he could reagnise the Pouk of . Aeke

L: along which he had motored so desperately little
P: along which he had motored so desperately

L: more than twenty-four hours earlier . Since then
P: more thath twepty-four hours earlier . Since then

L: he had flown to England , attended the vital
P: he had Blown to Eiglaved , atended the vital

L: conference in Bruce Denton's office , been whisked
P: conference in Bruce is ofice , ben whicked

L: by special helicopter from the Horse Guards
P: by special helicenpter grom the Horse Juards

L: Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for six blessed
P: Parade to Roscambe Polin , shept for eyp , bleoead ,

L: refreshing hours and had now completed two-thirds
P: regreshina hours and had now completed two thurda

L: of the journey back to the place where every
P: of the urnes lack to the place where , every

L: indication pointed to Eve being held .
P: idieation paited to . Eve being held .

L: Geoffrey set himself to consider the
P: gefyey sed himself to conaider the

L: movements of the Bentley . It had passed
P: movement of the Frenfley . I hod pased

L: him at the temporary bridge over the
P: him ad the temporary Andge over the

L: Tartaro at a few minutes past ten on the
P: Faw tar at a few ministes past fen on ther

L: previous night . He worked out the distance
P: previars nighet . He worhed out the Nsfance

L: on the presumption that its route had been
P: on the presveupher that its roite had ben

L: through Florence and Rome and then
P: throuph Flerence and tone and then

L: across Italy via Foggia to Barletta .
P: aeros Itbly via Fopgyis to Barle the .

L: It came to just over six hundred
P: Id came to ust oves is hundred

L: DARKNESS had descended like a curtain by the
P: DHRKNES Lod descended like a certain by the

L: time they docked at Belleray . And though Guy ,
P: time they docked at Beleray . And though lny ,

L: made nervous by Beryl's silence , drove at reckless
P: made nervens by Bery's silence , drove al rekles

L: speed to the Villa , it was quickly evident that
P: sped to the vila , it was quickly evident that

L: the party was over . Piers came strolling out to
P: the party was over . Piers came stroling out to

L: meet the Deanes , and as soon as Guy had
P: meat the Deanes , and as scen as buy had

L: driven away , invited them casually to come to
P: driven away , invited then casualy to come to

L: " Oh , she was due ! " And then he added in the same
P: TOh , she was due ! '" And then he a ded in the same

L: casual tone , " She 's not returning to her family . She 's
P: carual tue , ' She's hd rehurning to her faminy . She's

L: going to live with friends of the bank manager , just
P: geing to lise with friends of the bank marager , just

L: this side of Belleray . " Mrs. Deane made a suitable
P: this side of Beleray . " Mrs. Deane maske a suiace

L: comment , but Beryl said nothing . She was trying
P: coment , but Bery ) said nothing . She was hrying

L: to sort things out in her mind . That beneath his
P: to sot things out in her mund . That beneath his

L: unnaturally smooth exterior Piers was simmering
P: nunateraly suocth exterior P Pies has simering

L: with anger against her she had no doubt .
P: with anger against hes she had no doubd .

L: To Beryl , at least , this was anti-climax with a
P: To Pery , at least , this was anti-climarx with a

L: vengeance . She had expected to be met with violent
P: vengeance . She had expected tobe met with vident

L: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .
P: reprwaches - and here he was bland and smiling .

L: But it did not take her long to realise that his mood
P: But i did not take her leny to realise that hismoed

L: was less pleasant than appeared on the surface .
P: was les pleasant than apewed on the suface .

L: He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his
P: He told her noncholantly , as he led the way to his

L: own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of
P: awn veranda , that he had taken the litscrty of

L: asking Jack - as a representative of the Vallin family -
P: ashing Jack - as a representetive of the Valin fauity-

L: to come over and make the presentation in her stead .
P: to come ove and in oke the presestation in her stead .

L: " I caught him just as he was going to the
P: " Icought him just as he was going to the

L: airport to meet Blanche , " he said . " As a matter
P: airport to met Planche , " he said igAs a moter

L: of fact I 'd asked him last night to deputise
P: of fect Fd ushed him last right to depurise

L: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party
P: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party

L: too . They 're both here . " " I didn't know she was
P: tow . They re both here . " " I"dich't know she was

L: coming back from Barbados so soon . " Beryl
P: coming back from Boarbados asoson . " Pery '

L: said the first thing that came into her head .
P: said the first thing that came into her head .

L: Jack and Blanche were quick to sympathise , and to
P: tac and blande were peich to sympaticg ant f

L: express their disgust at Sir John's abominable treatment
P: apas their disgest of Sr thas dlovmionale trertment

L: of his guests . But Piers remained aloof , and when Beryl
P: ofhis guest. D Pies renained alof and when beryt

L: suggested having a second party , the following week , he
P: Eugested havins a second pusty , the Dlowing wede , he

L: poured cold water on the project . Everyone , he declared ,
P: ported old watian the poed . Erayone , he dedaved ,

L: had had a thoroughly good time , and it would take them
P: had had a tirnghly gad time , and I woud tale then

L: nearly to next week to settle down again . Meanwhile
P: wearly to nad wek to setle dren egain. Moanhile

L: Hubert would have betaken himself and his well-
P: fatert wod have betaken hansef and her wef

L: earned gratuity to his native village at the
P: carned gratkuity tho his native whage at the

L: " It 's your superior attitude that riles me . " Beryl was
P: At ypur seperior atitude that siks me , ' Beryt was

L: scarlet with annoyance . " How I happened to be marooned
P: scarlet with aemoyance " taw I hapened to te murened

L: at Balicou doesn't interest you in the faintest degree . You
P: at falicon dern't interesd yu in the fainitet degpen tor

L: look as though it was only what you expected of me ,
P: lbot as thoug it war snly whd you eyreted of me ,

L: as though I didn't care a hoot about letting Hubert
P: as thagh I didut care a lost ahad leting tubert

L: It was all over and done with .
P: It wis oal ovey and done with .

L: For the time being Beryl was content to let
P: For the time being beyf was content to let

L: it go at that , but she resolved to have
P: it go at that , but she resolvet to have

L: it out with Piers when a reasonable
P: it out with Piers when a reasomable

L: opportunity presented itself . He must
P: oportumity prosented itself . He must

L: learn that he could not treat her
P: learn that he could not treat hes

L: with injustice and contempt , ignoring
P: with injustire and contenpt , Fghoring

L: her explanations as though he were
P: hes explenctions as though to were

L: a schoolmaster and she a small ,
P: a Scholmaste and she a sucl ,

L: He gave her no chance of any private
P: te grave hes no chance of any private

L: conversation that evening , for when
P: convereatron that evlng , fo when

L: Blanche and Jack left , he went with
P: Blanhe and gack left , to wlut with

L: them . But next morning she insisted
P: them . But wr morning she insisted

L: on his taking her out in the jeep -
P: on is tolainy hey out in the jep-

L: to find , if possible , Hubert and his
P: to fied , if posible , Itubert and his

L: relations , and tell them of
P: rela trons , and thelf tel then of

L: her great disappointment at being
P: her preat disopointment ot beng

L: held up in Balicou .
P: hal p up us Ralicon .

L: With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his
P: wilh an air of rosignation he sent sudy , his

L: Boxer , to the back , and made room for her
P: Boker , to the back , and made rom for her

L: beside him . " Is that all you want to do ? "
P: beside dim . ' Io that al you vart to do ? "

L: he asked , letting in the clutch . " No ; I want
P: he asued , beting in the chitch . " No ;, I vast

L: to make you understand just what happened
P: to make you understard just chat hapered

L: about this Balicou trip , " she returned
P: abost this balicon trip , " she returned

L: coldly . " I 'm a little tired of being treated
P: coldly . " I a litle tired of being treated

L: like an ineffective imbecile . "
P: like on inefectivre imbecile . "

L: " And I 'm heartily sick of being constantly called
P: " And I 'm heartily sicd of being constantly caled

L: to account for my manners , " he retorted .
P: to acont for my manters , " he reforted .

L: " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for
P: " What have I done wrong now ? I caver up for

L: you the best way I can by getting hold of Jack
P: you the best way I can by pething hold of vack

L: to make the presentation , I run the damned
P: to make the presentation , Irn the damned

L: party to the best of my ability - saying the
P: party to the bert of my ability - saying the

L: sugary things you ought to have been there
P: ergary things you cught to have ben there

L: to say - and all you can do is to find
P: to say- and al you can do is to find si

L: " As your employee it 's not my business
P: ' As your employe it 's not my busiues

L: to understand all the whys and
P: to understand al the whys and

L: wherefores of your actions , " he said
P: wherefores of your actions , " he said

L: stiffly . " Still less to criticise you . "
P: stifly . Wtil leas to criticise you . "

L: " Oh , drop that nonsense , Piers !
P: TOh , drop that couseuse , Fiers ?

L: Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with
P: Be pourself , " she excdaimed , with

L: mounting exasperation . " Very well ! " He
P: mounting exasperation . " Very wel ? , " He

L: brought the jeep to a standstill in a rough
P: brought the jep to a standstil in a rough

L: path fringed and shaded by citrus trees .
P: path fringed and shaded boy citus tres .

L: " If you want my true opinion I 'll give it .
P: miIf you want my toue opinion lil giveit .

L: You made some sort of a protest to Graybury .
P: You made some sort of a protest to Grayoury .

L: I 'll give you credit for that . But you didn't press
P: Il give you credit for that . But you didit pres

L: the matter because , very naturally , you were
P: the mater because , vey naturaly , you were

L: thoroughly enjoying Forrest's company in
P: thoroughly enjoying Forest's company in

L: idyllic surroundings . " " How dare you say
P: idylic suroundings . " " How dare you say

L: such a thing ? " she blazed . " For goodness'
P: such a thing ? ' she blaged . For goduesi

L: sake show a glimmer of reason , " was his
P: sake show a glimer of reasou , " was his

L: equally indignant rejoinder .
P: egualy indignent rejonder .

L: " You talk as though we were alone on Balicou ! "
P: " You Yalk as though we were aloue on Galicout "

L: She avoided his gaze , and tried to ignore that
P: She avoided his gase , and tried to iguone that

L: last impertinent remark . " With four other people - "
P: last impertinent remark . whith four other people -

L: " Whom you never once managed to circumvent . "
P: " Whom you never ouce managed to circunent . "

L: The mockery in his voice had deepened . " With
P: The mockery in his voice had depened . whith

L: all due deference , Miss Deane - come off it ! "
P: al due deference , Mis beane-come of it ! "

L: She met his eyes then .
P: She mef his eyes ther .

L: She wavered , and at last said
P: She wavered , and at last said ao

L: slowly , " If you must drag the truth
P: sowly , " Of you must dray the truth

L: out of me , I must ask you to regard
P: out of me , " must asl yeu to regard

L: it as confidential . " " My dear Beryl ,
P: it as considential . " " My dear beriyt ,

L: don't tell me anything , if you 'd rather
P: don't tel me anything , if yaid rather

L: not . " He was clearly startled by her
P: not . " He was clearly startled by hes

L: words . " But remember , it was you ,
P: words . " but remember , itwas you ,

L: not I , who started this conversation . "
P: not i , who started this conversation . "

L: " Neither can Nigel , " smiled Diana .
P: " Neither can Nigel , " smited Diana .

L: " He 's saving up to get married . Remember ? "
P: " He's saving up to get maried . Remember? "

L: " I remember , " quipped the houseman ,
P: " o remember , " quiped the houseman ,

L: meaning no offence , " but does he ?
P: meaning no opence , " but des he I

L: That blonde was something . " " Anybody
P: That blonde was something . " " Anybody

L: I know ? " she smiled . " I think so .
P: A tenow'? " he smiled . " A think so .

L: I got a good look at her . But if Nigel
P: I ept a god loste at hes . But if Nigel

L: wasn't there it isn't important , is it ? "
P: wasnt there it ron't important 1s it 8 "

L: " No , " Di said immediately . " It isn't at
P: " No ,' Dr said Imeoliatly . " It ter't at

L: " Oh , he wasn't . His motor-bike had
P: " Oh , he wasn't . His motor -bike had

L: broken down outside and he noticed
P: broten down outside and he noticed

L: your car and then you dancing with
P: your car and then yeudancing with

L: this blonde . " " Really ? " Nigel cocked
P: this blonde . " " Realy' " Wigel codked

L: one eyebrow . " Actually she was brunette
P: one eyebrow . " Actualy she was tunetl

L: at the roots and I had a redhead on
P: at the rects and i had a redhead an

L: the other arm . He would have told
P: the otfher arm . He would have told

L: you this , too ? " " No , " she laughed .
P: you this , to " " No , " whe langhed .

L: " He didn't actually see you . Because
P: " He didn't actualy seyeu . Because

L: it was your car I suppose he
P: it was your car . supose he

L: presumed it was you , all dressed up in
P: presumed it was you , al dresed up in

L: " My white or my black ? " Nigel enquired .
P: in Hy white or rey black ? " Wigel enquired .

L: " Now I wonder which I wore at that
P: " Now ? woncdes which I wore ot that

L: particular surgery ? " " You are a fool ,
P: particulur surgesy? " " you dre a soh ,

L: darling , " Di said happily . " I shall take
P: dlarling , " Di said hapily . " y shal take

L: great pleasure in telling that young man
P: great pleasure in teling that yougo man

L: exactly what you were doing that
P: erxatly what you where dolng that

L: evening . " " No , don't , " he said , after
P: evening . " " No , dlon't , " he said , after

L: kissing her again . " I rather like to have
P: biasing her again . " u rather like to have

L: the housemen think of me as a
P: the housemen thine of me as a

L: I 'm such a dull fellow , really . " " Dull ? " She
P: On such a dul felow , realy . " " Bul ? " She

L: couldn't believe it . Self-deprecation
P: Couldu't believe it . Self-depre catien

L: was not one of Nigel's usual attributes .
P: was not cone of Wigel's usual atibutes .

L: " You need your holiday , darling . I only
P: " you ned your holiday , darling . I only

L: wish I could go with you ! " " Doctor
P: wish a could go with yout. '" " Doctor

L: Wills , if you 're making improper suggestions ... ? "
P: Wrls , if you're makieg Impropes sugestiors . I "

L: " It would make me more interesting ,
P: i It would make me more interesting , n

L: I suppose ? " she enquired archly .
P: I supose o " she enquired archty .

L: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almost snapped ,
P: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almast enaped ,

L: surprising her . " You sounded like some-
P: Eurprising her . " " you sounded like wome-

L: body else for a moment there . It doesn't
P: body ete for a moment there . At doesn't

L: become you to behave like a - a tart , Di . "
P: become yeuto behave Wke a in a tart ,iDr . "

L: " Nigel - ! " she gasped . " I didn't mean to
P: " Wigel ! " she ,gasped . " a didn't mean to

L: behave like anything of the kind . I
P: behave like any thing ofthe tind . I

L: was only joking . " " Well , don't . It 's
P: was onlyoking . " " Wel , don't . Ars

L: miserable enough my having to take my
P: miserable enough ray having to take ty

L: leave in the autumn without you
P: leave in the autumn without you

L: trying to be bright and gay about it .
P: trying to be bright and , ay about it .

L: Their air of smiling somnolence showed them
P: Their air of smiling somndence showed them

L: to have been guests at yesterday's
P: tohave ben quests at yerterday's

L: celebrations , and their friendly welcome
P: celebrations , and their friendly welcome

L: and warm sympathy , as she explained
P: and warn sympathy , as she explained

L: how she had come to miss the party ,
P: how she had cone ho me the party ,

L: made her send a complacent glance
P: made her send a complacent glance

L: in Piers' direction . What a fuss-box the
P: in Pes' direction . What a fous-bot the

L: man was , she thought impatiently ,
P: man was , she Choughe mpatunbly ,

L: trying to worry her into the belief
P: trying to wany her into the belietf

L: that her failure to appear at a function
P: that her failure So apear at a finction

L: on the estate was a major error :
P: on the estabe was a major eror .

L: And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing
P: and then she received a jolt . Old Hebent , standing

L: beside her , his battered hat in his hand , his
P: deside her , his batered hat in his hond , his

L: toothless mouth stretched in a wide grin , told her
P: tolhles mautlh stoutded in a mide yin , hold ther

L: in halting 6patois that " 3Mistah Piers " had
P: in Balting bpateis that " distah Pirs ' Sad

L: explained right at the start that " 3Mis' Beryl "
P: coeplained right at the start thalt 1 9Mhis' Beryh "

L: would be 3" plenty , plenty sad " not to be back
P: would be 3iplenty , plenty sad " not to be beid at

L: That it wouldn't be her fault at all . That
P: That it wouldn't be her foul at al . Thact

L: she was a lady who , like her Uncle Charles ,
P: she was a lady who , lke has Unate Charh ,

L: took the highest pride in keeping her word . " I
P: tochk the highest pricde in tsping her ward . " I

L: could see 3anudder 3t'ing , " he went on in a
P: could se Sauder Being , " he west on in c

L: lower voice , his sunken black eyes twinkling .
P: coves Vorce , his susten blach apes tutnklig .

L: 3" He powerful anxious , poor Mistah Piers .
P: Sle pouerful ancios , pour Misteh Prers .

L: We all know how Balicou Island dangerous
P: We al fenow hew Balicon bland dangsous

L: to all kin' o' boats , wid d'ose big , big
P: toal kat o boats , wid dlose biy , by

L: rocks in an' out o' de water .
P: roclhes in an'out a de worter .

L: He had almost entirely settled back into his old
P: He had alrmost antirely setled beck into his old

L: ways , even to reading law about two hours each
P: ways , evens to reading taw cent two bours each

L: day . Though he did not refuse wine , which the
P: day . Thoughs he did not refusenine , which the

L: judge always had on the table at dinner , he
P: judge alwoys had on the toblen at dismer ,he

L: did not act as though he found it necessary
P: did not act as though he found it necesary

L: except in moderate compliance with his father's
P: ercept is medevate compliance with lis father's

L: Around that rounded rocky promontory where the
P: Aromnd that rancled roely prountory where the

L: white spray could be seen flying across the distance
P: white sproy could be sen flyrig acrow the disfaice

L: of a mile and a half , came the yawl under her full
P: of a hile and a half , came the yaol under ho fil

L: triangular sail , and to the judge's frightened eyes , so
P: triangter sail , and to the judge's frightend yes , to

L: close to the rocks that it would be dashed
P: elose to the rokr that it would te dashedt

L: against them with the lift of the next wave .
P: against them with the lift ofthe net ware

L: " That boy ! That damned fool boy ! What does he mean
P: " That boy ! That daned fod bey ? W hat doew he mican

L: by trying to come home now , even if he did promise ?
P: boy tyivg to come home now , even if he od promce ?

L: What does time mean when weighed against the life of
P: What doer tme mean when wephed spainst the life of

L: two human beings ? " Not until he was certain that the
P: two hunon beings ? ' Not hil he nor certain that the

L: yawl had rounded the rocky point instead of
P: paul had rounded the tedy point instead o

L: being flung against the huge boulders did the judge
P: being fluny srainst the hgpe boulders did the pdye

L: empty his lungs of stifling air and refill them
P: amply his mngs of silrg air and refl them

L: with part of that howling northwest gale .
P: with part of thet howlng north nert gale .

L: When the wind was on a rampage , as it was
P: When the wrind was on a rampage , as it was

L: now , it could kick up a sea-sized commotion
P: nod , 1t could kick up a sea - sived comotion

L: where it had a straight blow of eight miles
P: where it had a straight blow of eight miles

L: down the lake . 3" Big blow , Judge , " re-
P: down the lake . Big blow , Judge , re-

L: marked Willie Kim as the wind billowed
P: marked wilie tim as the wind bilowed

L: out and sucked in his baggy black
P: out and shucked in his bagzy black

L: 3" Blow like hell . Maybe by and by
P: I " Dlow fike hed . Mayle by and by

L: she blow some more . " " Hello , Willie , where
P: she blow some more . " " Hels , Uilie , whese

L: did you come from ? " the judge said in
P: dicd yae come fom ! " the firdge said in

L: mild surprise . " I didn't hear you . Do you
P: wilch surprise . " I didn't Lear gou . So you

L: see that fool boy of mine out there on
P: se that fod boy of uine ouf there on

L: the lake ? " 3" I see him . You don't need
P: the lalce ? " I' ! se hium . Ion dont ned

L: worry , Judge . Big wind like that can't
P: worsy , fudg . Ong wind fle that canif

L: Bill is good man , and Bueno Buck is raised on lake .
P: Pil is god mean , and Boreno Puck is rainsed on lake .

L: He no drown , too . Him , his mother throw him into
P: Me no drown , No . Mien , his mother throw him into

L: water to make him swim when he is born .
P: wafer to make hie serim whien he is Jom .

L: Maybe so Bill , he can swim that good , too . "
P: Mayse so Bil , he can sarim that god , to . "

L: The yawl , riding the high waves with an air that
P: The yarl , riding the high waves with an air that

L: might have made an ocean liner envious , seemed
P: meight have made an oecen liner euviens , semed

L: prepared to make a safe though violent landing
P: prepared tomate asafe though vielent landing

L: when there came a sudden gust of wind
P: when there came a suden pot gost of wind

L: " My God ! " the judge cried out . " The boy
P: "lhy God ! " the judge cried ont . " The boy

L: is going to try to make a landing on the
P: is geing to thy to make a lauding on the

L: weather side of that pier ! He 'll wreck ! "
P: weather side of that pier ! Hel csrede ! "

L: Willie Kim was speechless , only his slant
P: bilie tim was ypedtes , only his Maut

L: black eyes showing any emotion . With a
P: black eyes thosing any emotion . With a

L: quick shift of tiller , and at the same time
P: quicd shigt of ther , and at the vame time

L: jibbing the boom to which he had the
P: yildoing the bon to cuich he had the

L: stay rope fastened , Bill made the
P: stay rope fastened , bil made the

L: It seemed to the frightened judge
P: At semed to the frightened yudge

L: as though his son would actually
P: as though his soun would achualy

L: shoot the craft in under the outer
P: shoct the calt in undes the outes

L: end of the wharf . But by pressing
P: end of the whast . but by piesing

L: the tiller hard over and at the
P: the tiler lad oves and at tle

L: same time dropping the small sheet
P: sale time doping the sual shet

L: of wet canvas , Bill cleared the
P: of net canas , bil cleared the

L: corner of the pier by inches , and
P: corles of the pies by iclies , aud

L: with the tiller still hard over , brought
P: with the tiler stil had oves , brougld

L: the yawl up against the waves
P: the yaul up agarinst the waves

L: " Willie , " the judge said huskily ,
P: silie the judge said huxkily ,

L: " that was as pretty a piece of seamans-
P: "theat mas as prety a piece of teatuaur-

L: hip as I ever saw . That boy of
P: hip un I ever yaw . That loy of

L: mine seems to know how to do
P: Minose tlenms to kow how to do

L: everything , when he wants to . "
P: euerything , When he mamk to "

L: " 3Naw , " disputed Willie . 3" Just
P: i Naw , chispudted MiMlie , 31 Just

L: play in damn fine luck this time .
P: play in danus fioe luck this time .

L: He plenty smart though . " As they
P: Ae plnty tart though ' As they

L: reached the pier , the judge on legs
P: tacdred the pier , the judge or legs

L: that were a little unsteady , they
P: that were a ltle unsteady , threy

L: found Bueno Buck , now on the
P: found Breno Tuck , now on the

L: pier , leading the yawl toward
P: fier .leadag telg anltohord

L: " Hello , Dad ! " Bill called . " I hope you
P: " Helo , Dad ! ' Bil coled - " I hope you

L: weren't worried . We 're going to
P: wereit wonried . Weive going to

L: drag the boat ashore and turn
P: drog the boat othore and fuvn

L: her over . She has a foot of
P: hes oves . The hos a fof of

L: water in her . I wouldn't be
P: bater in ter . I woeldnit be

L: surprised if we broke all
P: Eur prised if we boke al

L: speed records on the way in .
P: sped records on the bey in.

L: Yes sir , I am slightly wet , and
P: fer Six , I aen shightly wet , and

L: Buck would be wetter if he
P: Such woeld be wther if the

L: had more clothes on . "
P: had more clotles oy .

L: With four doing the job and the waves
P: With four coiny the js and the waves

L: pushing at the stern , the yawl was soon
P: pushing at the stern , the yawl was son

L: dragged out but before it was turned
P: dragd out but befure it was turned

L: over Bueno Buck reached into the foot
P: over Bueno Buch reacked into the fot

L: of water , tossed out a string of silvery
P: of water , tosed out a stringy of silvery

L: lake trout and said - 3" Bill , he 's better
P: lake trout and sard - 3il , he's beter

L: man at catch 'em than Injun , Judge .
P: man at catch lem than Ingen , gudge.

L: You look . Little one more as fifteen
P: You lok . Litle one more as fiften

L: inches . Maybe big one four feet ,
P: inches . Maybe biy one four fet ,

L: " By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! "
P: "By Oeorge that isa beastifel string of fish ! "

L: exclaimed the judge . " Toss them on the grass
P: exolaimed the juodge . Tos them on the gran

L: and then we 'll all get hold and heave . " A
P: and then wel al get hold andr Preave . " He

L: few moments later the yawl was upside
P: feaw maments later the yausl was epsicle

L: down , exposing its shallow keel .
P: dlown , exposing its stalow toel .

L: A submariner's wife needed to be spared as much
P: A subomariner's wefe neded to be spared as mud

L: as possible . Anyway the Parsifal affair was far
P: as pesible . Anyway the Parsidal afair was far

L: too fresh in both their minds to be a comfortable
P: to fresh in both their minds to be a comfortabld

L: subject for discussion . " It 's a command , " he said .
P: subsect for discusion . " A's a comand " he said .

L: We can do with the extra money . It 'll just about
P: We can do with the extra money . Al sust about

L: pay Jacky's school fees . " " What shall we do
P: pay Jak's sdol fes . " " Whal shal we eto

L: about this house ? - and Jill's school ? - and oh !
P: about this housef-and gil's sdod? - and oh)

L: If I 'd known what it would be like I 'd sooner
P: If 3ld Enown what it would fe like Gld socner

L: have married a parson . " He kissed her . " Parsons
P: have marnied a parson . ' We Riszed her . " Parsons

L: work on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse off than
P: wore on Surdays , ' he said . "fhey 're worse af han

L: submariners . You ought to have married that fat
P: subomariners . You ought to have maried that fat

L: stockbroker chap and shared him with his three
P: stolebrolor chap and shared him wnth his thre

L: mistresses . Anyway it might be much worse .
P: mistreses . Anyway it nieght be mud worse .

L: Pericles is a Portsmouth boat . She spends longer
P: Pericles is a Pordsmenth beal . She spends longer

L: in harbour than any other submarine .
P: in harbour than asy other sutomarinos .

L: Practically a shore job . Cheer up . " She wiped
P: Practicaly a shore job . Cher up . ' he wiped

L: her eyes and reached for her address book . " I 'll
P: her eyes and reacsed for her adves bose . ' gTel

L: write to those agents and try to get a flat in
P: worite tothose agents and try to set a flat in

L: Alverstoke , " she said . " But I don't know what
P: Peverslorae , " she said . ' But I don't gnow what

L: Jill will say about leaving her school . It 's a
P: Jil wil say about leaving her sod. Bt's a

L: blessing that Jacky 's off to boarding school .
P: blosing that Jacey's olf to boarding sod .

L: And all the trouble you 've taken with the
P: Aind al the trouble you 're taen with the

L: That little beast , Robbie Munyard ! " Having
P: That lible beast , Robts ve Menyard ! " Maving

L: said her say Peggy manfully shouldered her
P: said her say Pegy manufuly shouldered her

L: burden and prepared to break up yet
P: bvrather burden and prepaved to brede up yet

L: another home . In the ten years of married life
P: another home . In the tenyears of marned life

L: this had already happened half a dozen times .
P: theis had alveady hapened half a doen times .

L: Such is the life of a naval officer's wife .
P: sud is the life of a naval afcer's wife .

L: John's father had been a naval officer of the old
P: John 's father had ben a naral ofcer of the old

L: school ; some of his rigid ideas had been passed
P: sdo0l , Some ef his rigld ideas had ben pased

L: on to the second generation . One of these was that
P: onto the second generation . One of these was that

L: an officer should join a ship , on taking up a
P: an aficer should soin a ship , on taking up a

L: new appointment , at nine a.m. precisely , dressed
P: new apointmend , at nine am. precisely , dresed

L: in the modern equivalent of frock-coat and sword .
P: in the modern equivdlent of fo-coat and sword ,

L: It would have been acceptable to all concerned
P: It would have ben aceptable to al concerned

L: if John had stepped into Fort Blockhouse clad in
P: if Jahn had stepoed into fart Bloclhouse clad in

L: plain-clothes on the previous night , but ways
P: plain-clothes on the previous night , but ways

L: instilled by martinet parents have a habit of
P: instiled by martnet parents have a habict of

L: So he put up for the night at The Admiral's Head , that
P: So he put up for the rught at The Admiral' , Head , Thort

L: famous Portsmouth hostelry , second only in historic
P: famoers Portrmail foskleny , scend only in burtorie

L: interest to The George , unhappily destroyed by German
P: Titeret to The Ccoroge , unhrapily destrayed by Cerman

L: bombs during the last war . Having deposited his
P: lonts dusing the last war . Ha ving depasibed his

L: baggage and unpacked his overnight-bag he
P: (egage and empacked his everight-leg he

L: went in search of a drink . The lower bar was
P: went in search of a drisle . The lover har was

L: empty , save for the lady known by all habitue
P: Empty , save for the lady tasown by al haliture

L: man who was staring moodily into a gin
P: man who ewas staring modily into a gie

L: Seaweed's memory was prodigious ; her manner
P: Seawed's memory was prodicgious , fer manver

L: must have been worth a great deal to the proprietors
P: mint hare hen worth a great deal to te propric ton

L: of the hotel . She greeted John , however , with less
P: of the hotd . She qrerted Jahn , hawever , with les

L: than her usual cordiality and flashed a warning
P: than hes 1sual cordiality and flashed a tamling

L: glance at him . Evidently the other occupant
P: glance at him . Eundently the cther ocupant

L: of the bar was not 6persona grata . If her
P: of the har was not Epersana gruta . If her

L: memory was good , so was this stranger's .
P: money was god , so was this stranger's

L: " You 're Commander Winter , " he said . " Have a
P: " yaur'se Comander Minter , he said . "ae a

L: gin ? " He turned to Seaweed -
P: gin 2 " the turned to Seawed -

L: " Make it a large one , darling . I know the naval
P: " ake it a. lange ae , dartines . I hevcew the reval

L: habits . ' Drink gin and call each other wallahs ,
P: halits . " Preisle eain and cal each atles walales ,

L: what ! ' - as the Guards officer said on his return
P: what ! " - as the Ceuards oficor said on his nelirm

L: from a visit to the Royal Navy . Submarines , what .
P: fron a risit to the Rayal Muvny . Sulmenines , what .

L: Youngest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled
P: youngest B.S.C . in the war , whot ? Crauled

L: inside a submarine casing to defuse a Jerry
P: snside a submarine casing to defuse a Jory

L: bomb . Should have been a V.C.
P: loml . Lhould ha besn a lic.

L: What are you waiting for , darling ? The officer is
P: Whatone your waitrig for , darlins ? The ofecor in

L: obviously thirsty . " John fought back his
P: aliausly Mhishy . " Jothin fought hacks his

L: inherited desire to snub the man . If he did he
P: inhorited desire to suib the man . Of he did he

L: would have to leave the bar and either sit in
P: woueld have to leave the bar and either sit in

L: the lounge or return to his bedroom .
P: the Lonoge ar eturn to his hed wan .

L: Seaweed sensed his embarrassment and
P: Seawed rensed his enclamansment and

L: came to the rescue . " You haven't introduced
P: came to the sesoue . " Yore hasen't introduced

L: yourself , " she said with mock severity .
P: yourself , " he said wito male serverety .

L: " It 's a rule on these premises . No treating with
P: " Ifsa nule ar these premises . M treding with

L: strangers - that 's right , John , isn't it ? " " My
P: strangers - Chat' , right- Jaln , smi't it ? " " hy

L: fault entirely , " said the stranger . " It 's my conceited
P: fanltenhiely , " said the shanger . It's my concided

L: nature - I assumed that you both knew who I
P: Mature - Iaumed that you bath frer who I

L: was . I 'm Ian Bawley . Does that mean anything
P: Nes . Iom Jan Pauley . Fes that mean asnything

L: to you ? " It did . Ian Bawley's name was
P: to yau ? " Iidid . Jan Pawley's name Tas

L: printed at the head of most naval articles
P: preinted af the head of mast maral articles

L: " Oh , the Press , " said Seaweed . " Down here on business , Mr.
P: " Oh , the Pres : ' said Genwend '" gown here on busineus , Mr.

L: Bawley ? " " A pressman is always on the job . "
P: Bawley y " " A presaniarn is always on the gobs

L: He held out his hand and John could not do
P: He hield out his hand and Joten could not do

L: otherwise than take it . " Pleased to meet you ,
P: otherewise than take it : ' pleased to snect you ,

L: Commander , " he said . " Now what about that
P: Comander , " he said . ' Now what about that

L: drink ? " John nodded - he could afford to buy
P: drinte ? " Jehen moded - he could eford to buy

L: one in return and he was lonely .
P: one in return and he was lovely .

L: " For the sake of accuracy , " he said , " and I
P: " for the sake of acuracy . ' he said , ' and 8 fenow

L: know how you newspaper people value that commodity ! -
P: houwr your newspoper value that comodity ! -

L: please don't address me as Commander . I 'm
P: pleuse dor't adrers oe as Comander . Am

L: a Lieutenant-Commander . Perhaps we could
P: A centenant - Comander . Porhaps we could

L: drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You 're
P: drop the rante - such a moubhiful ! " " Jouire

L: absolutely right , " said Bawley , as he pushed over
P: absolubely right : ' said Bawly , as he pushed over

L: his glass . " Fill it up , darling . Accuracy above
P: his glus . ' Fil it vp , darking . Aceuracy above

L: all else . We pride ourselves about accuracy on
P: al olse . We pride ourselves ebout acurary on

L: Ever known us bowl a wide about your Service ?
P: Ever fenown us boul a wide about your Bervice s

L: Check and counter-check - nothing but the truth .
P: checte and courd-chefe - nothing but the eruth .

L: Somewhat embarrassing , what ? " " How can the
P: Bomewhed embarasing , whet ? " " Now can the

L: truth be embarrassing ? " John sipped his double
P: trach be enbarosving ' Joken siped his double

L: gin with relish . It was his favourite brand ,
P: gin with rolish . He was his favourile forand ,

L: he was on the verge of a new chapter in
P: he way on the verge of a new chapter in

L: his career , and his companion's attitude was
P: his careor , and his componion's alitude was

L: Life at home and in Bath had been a
P: lipe at hore and in Bath had ben on

L: trifle too comfortable and humdrum .
P: trigle to Comfortable aned hurndrwn .

L: He 'd never before met a pressman and
P: feid never before met a presran and

L: found him curiously stimulating . " You 're a
P: found him curcously stimalating . " Joure a

L: bit of a humorist , aren't you ? " said
P: bit of a humorisl , arerit you?'" said

L: Bawley . " The truth is usually very embarra-
P: Bawloy . " The uruth is esualy vory endara-

L: ssing . You 're in submarines , aren't you ? "
P: sing . Joure in submarines , aren't yous"

L: " You know a great deal about me , "
P: " Jou fenouw a great decl about sne , "

L: " It 's my business . I 'll tell you more . You 're
P: "L0s my burines . Jl tel you more . Joure

L: going to take over command of Pericles . Am I
P: going to tafle over comsmand of Pericles . Am

L: right ? " " Who told you ? " " Little bird .
P: right s ' " iWho fold you .i ch rle bird .

L: Other half ? " John nodded . " On me . " Bawley
P: Oeher holy ? . John moded . " On se . " Pawlay

L: shook his head . " All paid for by His Lordship , "
P: shote his fond . "' AEl paid for by this Londship .:

L: he said . " Expense account . You 're a married
P: he said . "' Eepense acourt . Jouire a meried

L: man with a couple of kids . Can't go wasting
P: man with a couple of feids . Carit yo wasking

L: your substance on a complete stranger . Set
P: your substance on a complete stranges . Bet

L: John flushed . " I 'm not in need of charity . " " Come
P: Woher flushed . ' I m sot wr mnd o charty ' Come

L: off it , " said Bawley . " The proprietor of the Daily
P: of it , ' sait Bawley . ' The propricter of the Parily

L: Courier knows what 's going on . If he doesn't mind ,
P: Cauvier hnows what 'o porny on. If he doesvit mind

L: why should you ? " " I see . " John took the
P: Why should you ? " " I ge . ' Soten tok the

L: refilled glass and looked over the rim at his
P: refpthed glas and locked wer the nim at husi

L: companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? "
P: comparion . " Yor waut me to talk , is that it "

L: " You misjudge me , " said Bawley . " You have
P: " Iom nispidge me , ' said Bawly "y on have

L: nothing to tell me , yet . But we 'll be meeting
P: nothirg to tl me yet . But we l l be mecting

L: again , no doubt , and then you will have .
P: regais no doult , and thas you wil have

L: Regard this as a softening-up process , and
P: ygard this as a seftring mo gres and

L: have dinner with me ? On His Lordship ,
P: have deriner with me. Onths Lordshup ,

L: of course . " " On one condition , " said John .
P: of curge " " On one condition , " said Bohn ,

L: " Tell me who the little bird was . " " Can't
P: rel me who the lithe bid was " Canst

L: you guess ? Whose portrait appears regularly
P: yeuges Wose portrat apears reguladiy

L: " You mean Munyard ? " " Sure . Very useful
P: yon meare Nhesyard " " Bure . Veny usful

L: contact , is our Robbie ; he gives us the gen and
P: contact , is our Rober , he geives us the gen and

L: we give him the publicity . ' The Honourable
P: we quic hris the publicity . ' The tneurable

L: " Robbie " and friend ' , what ? You know the
P: " Robue " and friend , what ? Jor kevew that

L: sort of thing . " " You 'll get nothing out of me , "
P: sort o tig . " Joul get nothing cut of me , '

L: said John , " but you can pay for my drinks
P: said chn , " but you car pay for my dintes

L: if you want to , as long as you keep off
P: of you wart to , as leny as you hep of

L: " Good-oh ! One for the grill-room , darling , and
P: G God-chl One for the purilt-rom , dashing , and

L: tell George to bring in the 6carte du jour . "
P: tel berge to bring in the barle dher jour . "

L: Bawley was a man of his word . He kept
P: Buvly was a manf his ward . H hept

L: away from Service matters , was an excellent
P: awary prom ervce maters , was an excelent

L: host and a splendid raconteur . The evening
P: hest and a splendid racuteur . The euing

L: passed all too quickly . As they parted in
P: pased al to quickly . Ao they parted in

L: the vestibule the two men were well
P: the veshbule , the two men were wel

L: disposed towards each other .
P: deisposed twads re anther .

L: " Ever been to Fleet Street ? " asked Bawley .
P: " Ever ben to FEut . Stret asked Bawly .

L: " You should . Next time you 're in Town
P: "yaushould Next time youre in-Fon

L: give me a ring at this number and I 'll
P: give we a vivy at this nmber and ('t

L: take you round the pubs where most
P: take you raund to the pubs where most

L: of the work is done . " He held out a card .
P: of the worh is done . ' HE held out a card .

L: John took it and put it in his pocket .
P: Lohs tok it and put it in his pockef .

L: " Thanks , " he said . " If ever my missus
P: " hanko , , he said . Ifever my musisus

L: lets me off the chain I 'll take you
P: Leto me of the chain Ml take y or

L: Ever been out in a submarine ? I 'll give
P: Eer ben out in a submarine ? Il give

L: you a spin round one of these days , if you
P: yau a spin round one of these days , if you

L: like . You could write it up . " Bawley made a face .
P: Rihe you could wite it up . ' Bansley made a face .

L: " Not in Pericles , old man . " " Why not ? "
P: "t Not in Fericles , old men . " " Why not ? "

L: " Better ask Robbie Munyard . " " What 's he been
P: " Bodr aske Robie temyard . " " What's he ben

L: saying ? " John was furious . The little squirt !
P: saying ? " yoken was farious . The litl squint ,

L: To go gassing to a newspaper man !
P: To go qasing to a newspayer man I

L: " Look ! " he went on earnestly . " You 're not going
P: " Lok ! " he went on earnestly " for' are not going

L: to write up Pericles in some way or other , are
P: to write up Pericles in some way or other , are

L: you ? " " What is there to write up ? " said
P: you ) " " What is there to write up ! '" said

L: Bawley . " There are forty-three submarines in
P: Dauwley . " There are forly - thre selomarines in

L: the Navy - why should I pick on Pericles ? "
P: the Mlay - why should y pick on Briles ? "

L: John eyed him steadily . " It 's the Parcifal
P: Boln eyed him steadily . ' Dt's the Porcifal

L: business , isn't it ? " he said quietly .
P: s, i ? t he said quetly .

L: " I don't want it to happen again , " said Bawley -
P: ' Idon't want it to hapen again ,' " said Bauwly-

L: " more so than ever since I met you . "
P: " more so than ever since I) met you , "

L: " What did Munyard say ? " " The Snort - hull
P: " What did tinyard say ? " " The tnost- hul

L: fitting fractured . " " Supposing I was to tell you that
P: fing fractured . " " Suposing ) was to tel you that

L: we 've had Pericles' entire Snort equipment removed
P: we ' we had Bericles ' entire tuort eqpuipment removed

L: and X-rayed and that it was as sound as a bell ? "
P: and K-rayed and that it was as sound as a bel

L: " Munyard didn't tell me that . But I must confess
P: " Muspard didn't tel me tat . But I must confers

L: I 'm relieved . But it still doesn't do away
P: I' m relieved . But it stil doesn't do away

L: with the possibility of faulty design . " He held
P: wilh the posibility of faubly design . " Te held

L: out his hand . " Maybe I will take a trip with you
P: but his hand . " Moyhe I wil take a trip wilh you

L: one of these days , " he said . " In the meantime
P: one of these days , ' he said . " In the meantime

L: I 'll tell my editor that the story 's a dead bird .
P: i'l tel my editeor that the story's adead bird .

L: Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring -
P: Glad I met you . Don't forget to give one a ring-

L: any time - knock twice and ask for Bawley , what ? "
P: anytime -ledk fevice and asd for Bawlay , what ! I

L: " I don't know when that will be , " said John .
P: ' I don't know when that wil be , " said fohn .

L: " I shall be busy for a while , cleaning up after
P: ' P shal be busy for actile , cleaning up after

L: Master bloody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines ,
P: Master body Hunyard . " THRE were six submarines ,

L: lying in pairs alongside the jetty at Fort Blockhouse .
P: lying in pairs alongside the vedy at Ford Dlacthrouse .

L: Black and grimly businesslike they both looked and
P: Mlace and grimly tusineadive they both locted and

L: sounded , for all of them were rumbling as they
P: sounded , for al of them ware rumbling as they

L: charged their electric batteries .
P: charyed their electric tuferies .

L: A light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhaust in
P: A light wind wafted the smade of diesel ehaust in

L: through the open windows of the Captain's house . It
P: dirough the open windas of the Captain's house . It

L: pervaded every room but neither Harry nor Madeleine
P: pervaded every rom but neither Hainy nor Madeleine

L: Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over
P: Turton noticed its existence as they sut in silence ovden

L: a substantial breakfast . Although usually a very
P: a subtartial breafast . Although nsualy a very

L: talkative lady Madeleine respected her husband's
P: talative lady Madeleine respected hor kusbaned ' s

L: silences , for she knew they betokened a worry of
P: silences , for she knew they betolened a wory of

L: There had been many such breakfasts lately since the
P: There had ben many sus, brealfasts lakly since the

L: affair of Parsifal . Harry had lost a good deal of weight .
P: afair of Pursidal . Harny had last a god deal of weghnt .

L: His normal placid and steady-going manner remained ,
P: His normal placid and steady-ygoing masnser resained ,

L: but she could see that it no longer came naturally .
P: but whe could se that it no longer caume naturaly .

L: It is the common lot of all Squadron Senior Officers
P: It is the comom lot of ol Squadron Benion ofiers

L: to experience such catastrophes as the loss of a submarine ,
P: to cxperience suh cltastraphes as the los of a subormenine ,

L: though in peace time these happenings are few and
P: chough in peace time these tapenings are few asnd

L: This is the testing time for all . The affair blows up into
P: This is the testing time for al . The afair blows up into

L: a national disaster and then when it is all over life
P: a national disaster and then when it is al over life

L: must continue as before . During this period the Captain
P: must constinuc as before . During this peried the Casptain

L: must present an unruffled appearance and carry on as
P: must prosent an unrmfled apearance and cary on as

L: if nothing unusual has happened . Harry Turton had
P: of nothing ususual has hapened . Hany Purton had

L: written letters to the bereaved , had visited many in the
P: voritlen lelders to the bereaved had visited many in the

L: locality , had been interviewed by the Press , had driven
P: lecality , had ben intervieved by the Pres , had driven

L: his surviving submarines a good deal harder than
P: his surviving submarines a god deal harder thay

L: usual and in fact had applied all the usual specifics
P: usual and in fact had aplied al the usual specifies

L: He rode down to where I was waiting . I was
P: He rocle don to where I was wailing . I was

L: thinking what a skill he had for reading
P: thiuling what a skil he had fer reacdg

L: my mind . " This would be as good a place
P: my mind . " This would he as goued a place

L: for a hold-up as any , " he said , reining in
P: for a nold-up us any , " he sold , rein'y in

L: near me . " Yes , " I said . " It 'll be here to-
P: new me . " Yes , " I said . " Il he nere to-

L: morrow as likely as not . " I paused . " Miss
P: marow as ley as not . " Ipauned . " Mis

L: Jeannie 'll be on that coach , Dan . "
P: Decaunie'l be on that couct , Dan . "

L: " Yes , " he said . " I know . " " No harm must come
P: " Yes , " he seid . ' Vonew . " " No hem mus como

L: to her , Dan . " " She 'll be all right . It 's the
P: to her , Das . " " shel be tl sigent . His the

L: men who 'll be after that coach I 'm interested
P: men who'l be after that eoach Im introsted

L: in , Johnny . " " I know . But if lead starts
P: Ms , Jchony . " " I tnew . But if lead oerts

L: flying she might be in danger . " " That 's so .
P: Thyng the mgt be in danyg s " " Thary t0.

L: But I reckon they 'll be too busy shooting at
P: But treclon they'l he to bany sotng at

L: us to bother with the coach and the folks
P: as to bether wite the coach and the leles

L: " Maybe , " I said . " But we 've got to remember
P: C ayke , " I sail . " But welve jod to remenker

L: that girl all the time , Dan . I feel kind
P: that gurl al the time , Pan . I lael kind

L: of responsible for her . " " Of course , " he said ,
P: of resporatuls for ner . " " Of course , " he said ,

L: giving me one of his strange looks . Then he
P: gilng me one of nis sage lods . Then he

L: turned the conversation . " Let 's ride over
P: turned the coversaution . "Let) vide wes

L: and have a look at the mining camp .
P: and have a lack at the mling canmp .

L: After all it 's them we 're supposed to be
P: Heter al ils them we'e supered to he

L: working for , as well as the townsfolk and
P: werking for , as wel as the tonuslolk and

L: With something of a start I remembered the
P: with something of a orn I remenhered the

L: man who 'd brought us into this business .
P: man who'd beught is into this bunern .

L: " Maybe you don't know about Appleton ,
P: " Mnyhe you doult lsow about Apleton ,

L: Dan ? " " Know what ? " " That he 's dead , "
P: bun ? " " Uenow Whact ? . " " That hes dead ,'"

L: I said . I watched him because I was always
P: I sald . I watdred his tecaume I was alwany

L: fascinated by the way he looked when you
P: fascinated by the way he lolked when your

L: tried to surprise him . " Dead ? " he said . " Yes .
P: tied to swpripe his . " Pead ? " he said . " Yes ,

L: Dead . Shuffled out of the deck . Blasted
P: Dead . Sruled ont of the chck . Dusled

L: down with a shotgun outside the Palace
P: don with a chogun outrids the Palace

L: " Fenton or Somers , " he said . " Or the Town
P: " Fenten ir tomes , " he sid . " Dy the Town

L: Marshal , " I added . His face was fixed ,
P: Mcrshal , " I aded . His face was fiked ,

L: unreadable as a rock . " Let 's get over to the
P: unreadable as a sode . " lels gt over to the

L: mining camp , " he said abruptly . He wheeled
P: mniving canp , '" he said abuptly . He wheled

L: his horse back off the trail and up the slope
P: his hose hack of the tail and up the dipe

L: leading to the ridge . I followed . From the
P: reacding to the Nicys . I polonedy From the

L: top you could see something of the wild hill
P: top you could se something of the mild til

L: country that lay all round Gilburg Crossing .
P: counbry that by al cond glteg Crorng .

L: The air was fresh and clear and you
P: The aw was beth and clear and yeu

L: could see far over west and north for many
P: could re fr werk and morth for many

L: miles . The real high country of the Rockies
P: mules . The real high counly of the Rockies

L: lifted up in the distance like a pale water-
P: lilted up in the cistance We a pale water-

L: colour drawing . Between us and that lay
P: Colow draning . Betwen us and that l ay

L: a vast stretch of hills , canyons , buttes and
P: a vast wrdchs of hils , eanyous , buls and

L: " The mine-workings lie north of the town , "
P: The mine-werkings he horth of the toun , '

L: said Dan . " If we head west we ought to
P: said Dan . " If we head west we ought to

L: cut the trail leading from Gilburg to the north . "
P: out the baul leadng bom Grltey to the morth . '

L: So we swung west , making slow going over
P: 1o me suerg wes , making tow yoing over

L: rough country , sliding on shale , climbing down
P: sough coundy , stidng on whale , climbing doumn

L: into draws , circling a big mesa by a
P: winte draws , aircling a boly mes by a

L: four or five mile valley , sandy-floored . It
P: for ir bve mile valeng , vandy-ploured . It

L: got hotter as the day wore on and we rested
P: unt hater as the day woe on cnd he roled

L: gratefully by a small creek where we watered
P: gratefuley by a asal vek where he watered

L: the horses and drank enough to cure our
P: the harses and cranke grough to cure ow

L: An hour's riding brought us to a trail that
P: An hawb ricdg brouglt us to a fail that

L: we figured would lead to the miners' camp .
P: the lyered word lead to the muedy camp .

L: We turned north into it and after about four
P: We thrned nosh inter it and alter absont for

L: miles it led into a small canyon which
P: mides if ld Iute a smcl cangos which

L: opened out into a wide shallow draw .
P: opened ond into a wile shalew waw .

L: Here in a dried-up creek-bed we found
P: Htere in a diod-up crel-hed we goneh

L: the miners at work . They were scattered
P: the miners cot wek . Thy were realered

L: over a fairly wide area working singly or
P: over a pairny wicle wer werking onyty or

L: We didn't approach unchallenged . Just short
P: We widnt aproach unchalenpul , Iut ohet

L: of the diggings there was a roughly-built
P: uf the chigsing there was a roughty -binlh

L: shack and as we got near someone inside bawled
P: shack and as we got new someone ihnpicl banked

L: out , " If you come any closer , I 'll sure blow
P: and , " If yu come any closer , lil wo bolow

L: your whiskers off . " " Take it easy , mister , " I sang
P: your nhiakers of . " T Tale it eory , miter , " Wany

L: out . " We don't aim to come any closer and we 've
P: ont . " We don it ain to cone any closw and reke

L: got no whiskers so as you can see . Just you
P: gut no wroles so as yon cen se . Dy9 yeu

L: go and tell Nick Dowd we 've come to talk
P: go and tel Wiele Bowd we'we come to tale

L: to him about what happened last night . "
P: to him cbond chal hapened lost niges . "

L: " Oh , " said the unseen guard . He blew a
P: bu , " said the usen guard . He bew a

L: whistle then , loud and shrill . The gun barrel
P: Whrotle then , lond and chil . The yun borel

L: peeking out through a hole in the shack never
P: peking ont though a hole in the chack never

L: wavered . We sat our horses , waiting . " Looks as
P: wavered . We jaut ow heres , waity . " Lovls s

L: though they 're expecting trouble , " I said . " Where
P: though they 're rxspectig trouble , " I said . " Were

L: there 's gold and women there 's always trouble , "
P: there' gld and woman ther's wswangs troutle y

L: observed Dan , shifting about in his saddle . He
P: observed Ban , tilfy abant in his sadle . He

L: Mr. Copthorne knew a way round by the side
P: Mr. Copthome lnas a woy round by the ride

L: of the church where there was a small open
P: of the chuich where there was a sal open

L: outbuilding where the grave digger kept his spades
P: onthildirg where the gravediger lept his spades

L: and forks and tidying up implements . It might
P: and facks and tichying up smplements . ut might

L: be open . It was . He entered , and seated himself
P: he spen . At was . Te entered , and reatod himself

L: in a huddle upon an upturned wheelbarrow .
P: in a hudl upon an uptrmed whulboros .

L: His curious headgear fell off . Strange things
P: this curious headgear fl tf . strange thing

L: were going on in his bewildered brain . When
P: were going on in his havildered brain . When

L: a man was drowning and towards his last
P: a man was drowning and towards his last

L: gasp it was scientifically supposed his whole
P: gasp it was acientificaly suposed his whch

L: life came up before him in some cinematic
P: tife came up befere thin in some cremetic

L: Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church
P: Mr. Copthorne was on dry loud in a church #to

L: outbuilding , but this was happening to him now . He
P: outhuildig , beut this uns hopenig to him now . He

L: saw himself as a sulky , ugly , malformed , repressed
P: saw huself as a suly , ugly , melforned , repuesed

L: boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing
P: boy , then a joung yout . He sas himelf refusig

L: baptism according to the sect his parents belonged to .
P: beaplism ucording to the sect his paents blougeh to.

L: Walking out of the chapel later on . Continuing
P: Walking out of the chopal later on loutinuing

L: on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-
P: on , his leopeing uind flashod prcteres of chi-

L: canery and corruption , the growth of the dea-
P: canery and coruptisn , the groust of the coa-

L: dly decadence and absorption in debase-
P: dly decadence and absorption in debase-

L: ment and Satanic debauchery .
P: ment and Satanic debauchery .

L: He didn't know what to make of it , but it
P: the didn't know whot to make of it , but it

L: was Mr. Copthorne all right . Perhaps he had
P: was Mr. Copthorne al vight . Perhkaps he had

L: been attending some kind of fancy dress do
P: ben at ending some tind of fancy dres do

L: in London . Very strange his eyes looked . Mad ,
P: in London . Very strange his eyes loked . Mad ,

L: hunted eyes , as if the poor fellow had rocks in
P: hunted eyes , as if the por felow had roeks in

L: his head , so the verger described afterwards .
P: his head , so the veryer discribed ofterwands .

L: " You 're very early about , sir , " he said , trying to
P: " youive very early about , sir ( he said , hrying to

L: " Yes . I travelled down from London
P: wlfes . trawelrd aroun frem demodom

L: as the dawn was breaking , and
P: astheclawn was hredinty , ond

L: the thought came to me I 'd like
P: the thoughf came fo e il heite

L: to take a look at the church . I 've
P: to take a lokat the clurel . Iice

L: never been inside . Very remiss of
P: mever heri-nimave . Leg nereg

L: me , " said Mr. Copthorne . The verger
P: me , " soecler. Copeferue . Cle eager

L: led the way in . " The stained glass
P: led the mag in . in The stained nlems

L: windows , sir , they date back to
P: suiudorus , six , they chake hol ho

L: the fourteenth century . "
P: the fardeaed cenleagy . "

L: There were few passengers on the plane and Gavin was
P: There were few pasengers on the plane and Eavin was

L: quickly through the customs . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl
P: quicdy through the customs . " Bay " " Gavisn ! " The git

L: and her luggage had disappeared and they were alone
P: and her Ingage had disapeared and they were done

L: together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the
P: together . The porter brought Gavin's bay out to the

L: taxi . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin pressed her
P: faxi. " dust a moment , darling , " Gavin presed her

L: hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the
P: hand and smited . " I want to check up on the

L: Gay went out to the waiting
P: gay went out to the woiting

L: taxi , and then found that in
P: tori , aure then faund that in

L: the excitement of meeting
P: the excitement of meting

L: Gavin she had left her sun-
P: gauin she hod left her sun-

L: glasses on the veranda . She
P: glasoes on the verauoe . She

L: went quickly back to fetch them .
P: weut qpeicly bach to fetolthem .

L: Gavin and the girl who had got
P: gawin and the girl who hoad gort

L: off the plane with him were talking .
P: of the plane with him were taling .

L: He was writing something in his
P: te was writing something , is leris

L: pocket-book , with a sick feeling
P: pocket- bok , with a siche fehing

L: of despair Gay knew that of course
P: of deopair gay knew thot of course

L: Gay , sitting opposite Gavin on the terrace could
P: Gay , suthring oposte Gaven on the terase could

L: hardly believe that she was the same girl ,
P: handly belieive that she was the some gial ,

L: miserable , shy , who had sat at the little
P: miscrable , shy , who had sot at the litlr

L: table for the first time a few days ago .
P: table for the first sime a few days ago .

L: Gavin raised his glass to her and smiled
P: Gavin raised his olars to has and siled

L: and Gay's heart turned over . " I 'd like
P: and Gay's leal turned over . " I 'd liko

L: to do that . " Gavin drained his glass
P: to do that . " Garien drained his glas

L: " And then we 'll go for a stroll along the
P: I And then wo 'be go for a strl adong the

L: beach . A moon like this mustn't be wasted . "
P: beach . A won liko tis nustn't be wasted . "

L: He gestured towards the bay where the full
P: He gestured lowards the bay where the ful

L: moon was just rising over the rocks , then
P: Wo was fust rising over the roks , then

L: laid his hand on hers . Gay smiled at him
P: bd his Land on Leo . Gay muited at nim

L: again , happy beyond belief , knowing that
P: again , lapoy bagand badcf , unowing that

L: now Gavin was in love with her and her
P: naw fauin wo in cave withor 8 lar

L: only , yet remembering for a second the
P: cnly , yet rembering for a sond the

L: kisses she had seen him giving Elaine .
P: LlOses the had ben him grving caine .

L: All that was part of the past , she would put it behind her . She
P: Ol hat was part of the pat , She would put it bdined thes . Te

L: would never be jealous again , would even take Larry's advice and
P: would sever be yeolouragain , would wven take Romy 's cdvce and

L: look the other way if need be . " I say ! " Gavin was looking over her
P: Rok he other way if red be . ' I say , " Gevui was loking ovey hiet

L: shoulder . " That 's a pretty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Isn't she
P: snoulder , That's a prely givl ! " Gay glanced betind Mher , , Darit the

L: lovely , she 's French , a very well known model I believe .
P: lovely , she 's Prench , a very wel fnow model elieve'

L: Gay , a little puzzled , went through
P: gay , a litle puzgled , went theough

L: to the bar . Doc and Lilyan were
P: to the beae . de and hilyom were

L: sitting just inside having coffee .
P: siting just inside having cofe .

L: " Come and join us and bring your
P: " Come and jon us and being your

L: boy friend , " Doc called . " No , Doc ! "
P: boy fiend , Do0 caled . " No, DoC . ! n

L: Lilyan remonstrated . " They want to be
P: filyon emonstrated . " They want to be

L: alone . " " I 've booked a table at the
P: alone . " " I've loked a takle at the

L: tonight so come and join us if you
P: toright so come and join us if you

L: can't find a table for two . "
P: con't fand a table fo two . "

L: The others were all dancing and
P: The others were al dancing and

L: as Gay drew out a chair and sat
P: as fay chew out a chaie and sat

L: down Gavin , without a word , swept
P: cown faven , withot a werd , swept

L: Simone on to the floor . " It doesn't mean
P: Siesose an to the floe . ' It doesu'l meae

L: anything , " Gay told herself desperately ,
P: ariyteing , ' gay told heuself despacately .

L: trying to understand Gavin's point of
P: Aying to bnderstand fowen point of

L: view and remembering the advice
P: view and remembing the advice

L: that Larry had given her , while she
P: that dasey had givern her , while she

L: felt wretched beyond words .
P: felt wetchied beyound woeds .

L: Gay thanked him and walked out on to
P: Gay thankedlim and waled out on to

L: the terrace thinking that perhaps Gavin
P: te teirace Miling Mhat perhaps gavier

L: had bought a drink and taken it outside .
P: Lodbaughtariuk and taken it outside .

L: She looked round scanning the tables ,
P: the Loled round souing Hhe tobles ,

L: then caught her breath , a cold hand
P: then coughthx breath , a cold haud

L: seeming to clutch her heart . Gavin was
P: seitd to culdh elard aowin was

L: seated at a small table in a shadowy
P: slated ot a sual tabl in a shadowy

L: corner talking animatedly to Simone .
P: corner talking animatdly to suoue .

L: As Gay watched he offered the girl a
P: as gay watcbld hn Ozpered the gixl a

L: cigarette and lit it , his hands cupping
P: cigarete and 1 it , is lauds aupsing

L: hers in an intimate way .
P: ey hm an itinuate way

L: Gay stood irresolute for a moment , half
P: Gay stod ireodute for a momet , eaep

L: decided to go back and join Lilyan and
P: decided to go bad and joim Myon and

L: Doc , while she wanted to do no more than
P: ,0 , Whl she Wauted to do no mote tham

L: run upstairs to her room , knowing that
P: te upstais toke rom , Lvmotwig thot

L: Gavin although he had told her that he
P: gawin athough he had told er that hr

L: loved her , was already flirting with a girl
P: Cowedke , was aready feirting wice a gih

L: that he had only met a few minutes before .
P: Hatle lod ouly met a few mites befose .

L: Larry's advice flashed through her mind ,
P: couy's adwice flashed trangh er mind ,

L: but she turned away , giving a little
P: bt she tersed away , giving a litle

L: gesture of hopelessness , knowing that her
P: gistere of Ropelersen , Mnosing thailes

L: His behaviour was not only boorish and in the worst of
P: fis behaviour was not only barih and the worst of

L: taste but it was unkind beyond words . She fumbled
P: torte but is was utind beyeod words . The fumbled

L: with the cigarette packet which lay on the table
P: with the eigarate facked which lay on the fale

L: not wanting to smoke but needing some action
P: not wanting to suote but neding come action

L: to help her control her feelings . " Come and
P: to tolp her conted her foling i . " Coume and

L: dance , " Doc's cheery voice came as a
P: danouf' Do's chery voice came as a

L: lifeline and Gay got up quickly , mana-
P: lifeline and bay got up quickely , mona-

L: As he swung her on to the floor Gay saw Gavin
P: As he swing her on to the flor Gay souw Cawin

L: and Simone go through the doorway that led
P: and Simone go through the dorway that ted

L: down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a
P: down to the beach . Cay closed her eyes for a

L: moment in disgust . She was fully aware that Gavin
P: moment in disgust . She weox fuly asare that Cain

L: would make love to the French girl on the sands ,
P: would make lose to the French girl on the sander

L: and no doubt he would come back soon and
P: and no dowst he would came back scon and

L: after Simone had left expect her to accept his
P: after Simone had left expect her to acept bis

L: kisses on the way back to the hotel .
P: fises on the way bad to the trekel .

L: Sentence Database P02-109
P: ofo DkLol-t0

L: " And that 's the man whom you have been eating your
P: " And that s the has whom to he ben eang Foa -.

L: heart out over ? " Doc nodded towards the door . " You
P: heat out over ? " Doc noded towards the dosr . ' Yo

L: may consider him a man , I would say he was a
P: may consider him a man , I would say he was a

L: mentally adolescent cad . " " Oh , Doc ... " Gay protested
P: mataly adescest cad " " Or , DeC. , bay protated

L: weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I 've only met him
P: weatly , " you don' t know bowin . " ' I ve only met him

L: today but I think I can safely say that I know
P: today but I thirk Ecan sofely say that I know

L: him a great deal better than you do . "
P: thim a groat deal botfer than you do. "

L: Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up
P: Poc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up

L: Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing
P: Gay , and don't even contemplale throwing

L: yourself away on a chap like that . You 're a
P: yourself away on a chap like that . Youive a

L: fine girl , intelligent , and pretty , and I had
P: fine girl , inteligent , and prety , and I had

L: thought you were sensible too . Don't
P: thought you were sensible to . Don't

L: make a fool of yourself over someone
P: make a fol of yourseif over someone

L: who doesn't care two jots for your feelings .
P: who doesn'l care two gols for your felings .

L: If he behaves like this now what is your
P: If he behaves like this now whot is your

L: married life going to be like ?
P: mavied life going to be like ?

L: Hell . " Doc answered for her . " Just Hell . Never able to
P: LeD . , Doe answered for hev . " Just Hel . Wer able tor

L: trust him out of your sight and having to put on
P: trust him out of your sight and having to put on

L: a brave face and pretend that you don't mind
P: a " bvave face and pretend that you doult mind

L: whenever he flirts with another woman . He will
P: Whenever he flints with another yeman the wil

L: you know , always , and you aren't the type
P: yor know , cluys , and you aren't the type

L: who is tough enough to change him . "
P: who is tough cncugh to chaye him . a

L: Gay nodded . " I know that you 're right Doc , I think
P: yay roded . ' I kneoe that yosise right fe , I thirk

L: now that I do realise that , and in any case , " she added
P: nere that I do netise that , and is anycare , the aded

L: a little sadly , " if I did change Gavin , he wouldn't
P: a litle ds radly , " if I did charge Gaies , he wedit

L: be the same , if you know what I mean . " " You sound
P: be the rame , if you knew whet I men ! Phou sound

L: like Alice in Wonderland , " Doc gently mocked her , " and
P: lihe lelice in Nandertard , " Dre gertly mocked her i and

L: I 'm glad you 're beginning to see that you 're wasting
P: I'm glad youire begining to set that yoire sarting

L: Now let him go and you won't have to wait
P: Now let him go and you won't have to wait

L: long for the right man for you to come
P: long for the right man for you to come

L: along . If I was thirty years younger and weren't
P: dlong . If I was thirty years younger and weren't

L: married to the sweetest wife in the world
P: maried to the swetest wife in the world

L: I 'd marry you myself . " Gay laughed , Doc was
P: Id mary you uyself . ' Cay laughed . Doe was

L: so kind and nice and she hoped that one
P: so kind and nice and she hoped that one

L: day she would be able to see the situation
P: day she would be able to se the situation

L: as it obviously appeared to everyone else .
P: as it obviously apeared to everyone else .

L: Doc asked Lilyan to dance and once
P: Doc ashod Silgen to dance and ance

L: again Gay found herself alone at the table
P: again Gay fand heisely alone at the tabl

L: feeling self-conscious and awkward , sure that
P: Beliney sel-conscious and awtwand , seue that

L: people were talking about the way Gavin
P: prospl wen talking abaut tho way gain

L: was behaving since they had seen them
P: mas behaving sice they had sen thom

L: dining together . She opened her bag
P: aliving togele . She srened he bay

L: to get out her compact and saw Grace's
P: ts got out her compact and saw Eyace's

L: letter . She drew it out and opened it ,
P: leltes . She cew it suty and ropened it ,

L: glad to be able to occupy herself .
P: glad to be abh to scuny heisely .

L: " So glad that you are having such a lovely time , dearie , "
P: " So glad that you ase having such a fovdly limt , dearie , '

L: it ran . " Your cards are lovely . I rang up Miss Harland
P: it san . " Yon cards aso fouohy . I reang up ths Marfard eo

L: and have been over to sit with her father and do what
P: and frave ben over to sit with her taltios and do what

L: I can for him so that she can get out to do her shopping .
P: I can for him so that sho can gd out to do her shoping .

L: He 's getting on well but is pretty helpless still with his
P: Ho's gelhing on wel but is proly hdlplers shil with his

L: No other news except that Elaine is engaged
P: Ho other news except Claine is engayed

L: and going to marry a foreigner ... "
P: and goisg to mary a foreigrner . " t

L: Gay read the rest of the letter then put
P: bay read the rest of the loter yut

L: it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged ,
P: it back in her bay . Elaine was engaged ,

L: to the man she had spent so much time
P: to the mas she had spent so much time

L: with at her party . That was why
P: with af ber party . That was why

L: Gavin had come back to her .
P: bavin had cose back to tex .

L: Everything was quite clear now , and to
P: Everyling was gute clear now , and to

L: her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak ,
P: her own surprise bay felt no heartbreak ,

L: rather a sense of relief now that she
P: rather a sense of relief now that she

L: knew why Gavin had come to see
P: knew why Davin had cone to se

L: Because she was second best . The others came back
P: Because she wos second best . The others came back To

L: to the table , all of them making a fuss of her and at once
P: The tale , ol of then making a fuer of hes and at ones she

L: she felt happier . Gay loved them for their warm sympathy ,
P: Fet haypos , Bay loved then for theis warn smpoty ,

L: knowing that they were real friends , even if they were new ones .
P: tnowig that they wen seat ,own it they wex new ones

L: " That is a pretty dress , " Lilyan commented , obviously sensing
P: " That is a prel y des' , Lihyon comented , oburoudy seniyg

L: Gay's distress and in a way that Doc , as a man , could not
P: Eays distrer and in a way that Dot ,as o ron , could not

L: understand , knowing that Gay was as much ashamed
P: understond , knouryg That Gay war ar meah ashamd

L: for Gavin at the way he was behaving as she
P: for gain ot the way he was Behaning ashe

L: " I made it myself , " Gay tried to speak
P: I I made it myselt , " Gay triad to yoeal

L: Diana Wills often sat on the brand
P: Rhiana Wils often sak on the brand

L: new seat outside the hospital
P: men seat oulside the hospitol

L: gates and thought vagrant
P: gatus and thonght wagrarf

L: thoughts . At one time she had
P: thonghts . At one time she had

L: watched the workmen constructing
P: wakoked the -arkmen consthuncting

L: the roundabout , which was
P: the rend-abent , which was pof

L: to put St. John's Casualty Department
P: to put St. John's Casnalty Depatmant

L: out of operation - in theory , at
P: ont of oghation - in theany , at

L: least . She would think of her-
P: least . She mould think of he-

L: self as a stranger in these parts
P: self as a shange in these pants

L: studying these cross-roads . Which
P: studying these crosroads , which

L: " If I were a tramp I would simply blow a
P: Ir lh hn nsthrn hnonsnpn hne

L: feather , " she decided , rather envying the gentle-
P: feather , " the decited , rather eneying the sentler

L: man of the road his freedom of decision , and
P: man of the reoad his frelom of decision , and

L: wishing life would sometimes allow serious-minded
P: wishing lie would sometines alew sevione-minded

L: women doctors to blow a feather and follow its
P: SenesededorseterblawemfeaHer m sfalaosils

L: airy directions accordingly . " If I were needing a
P: deatiese nordesy alhel es edensa

L: job I 'd go to London , of course , " she went on .
P: S oh eldago ter lenian rs crmreyayersntao

L: " There are all sorts of wonder-
P: " Thare cre cal sorts of conder-

L: ful jobs in London and I could
P: fut yots in London and I could

L: take my pick , whereas in Yarmouth
P: taese my piols , wheredr in Kamouth

L: one has to know something about fishing
P: ae has to know Something about fhing

L: and in Liverpool they 'd want sea-farers .
P: and in liverpol they'd wat sea-farers .

L: I don't think I 'd go to Edinburgh un-
P: L clon't thier i ed go to Edinbugh in-

L: less I was a Scot and wanting to get
P: ler I was a Scot and wenting to get

L: home , or perhaps a student studying to
P: home , or perhaps a student study ing to

L: be a doctor , and I already know
P: be a dactor , and I already know

L: She was engaged to Nigel , had been for two years .
P: the was engaged to Migel , had ben for two years .

L: Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get married " ,
P: Somermes they lalved on the theme of " wnen we yed maned ' ,

L: and then all was wonderful , and perhaps it had only been
P: and then sl was wordefue , and pernape in had ony ben

L: a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last
P: a ceip of the tongue when Niger had ward , ondy laot

L: evening , " If we get married , old girl , you 'll have to stop
P: evering , ' If we go maned , old gil , wpen it have to wop

L: She couldn't remember what they had been talking about or
P: the ouldn't remembes what they had ben talkny about i

L: which ' lark ' she would have to stop , only that significant tiny
P: wich " eae" she waes har'to soyp , avly that syuifirant tey

L: word shouted into her very soul a horn of warning , and
P: wand suanted wto hes vey saut a hom of wasuing , and

L: with it was coupled a disembodied fragment of information ,
P: wilh it was coupled a discenbodied fryment of tnfrenation ,

L: which now took on an ominous significance : Nigel had been
P: which naw #he teok an ominons syuificance . Nigl had ben

L: seen in Farlingham on an occasion he had sworn he had
P: sen in Farliughan on an ocasin he had swon he had

L: been standing in for Luke Parsons at his surgery in
P: hen standing in for luke Parsens at his suyey in

L: Now Nigel had every right to go where he
P: Now Hhigel had every right togo where he

L: liked during his off-duty periods
P: liked tegere during his of-duty periaeds

L: when she was not free ; this much they had
P: when she was not fre ; this much they had

L: conceded one to the other . They rarely
P: conceded one to the other . They rarely

L: found they were off duty together , and
P: found they were of derty together , and

L: the situation would have been intolerable
P: the situation would have Gen intleradle

L: had there not been some give and take
P: had there not ben piven and take

L: about their relationship . So when Nigel
P: about their relatiouship . So when Niger

L: had told her about taking Luke's
P: had told her about taking cnte's

L: evening surgery she had said ,
P: evening surpery she had said ,

L: " Bless you ! I hope Luke is suitably grateful , darling . " " Oh , well , "
P: ' eat seon ! ' Tore luk i sursus cenen , tains . " ' Od , wak , -

L: he shrugged diffidently , " I like the work . One gets plenty
P: he a sipripars , " " W ire l, e bey povs

L: of variety and it 's a change . " Nigel was the hospital's
P: of k o tit a arare . " Miece ws the porpian's

L: Junior Medical Officer . " You won't be free about nine , I
P: J ure masie opfrca . " Don No t 8 ap nour wke , '

L: suppose , to meet me for supper somewhere ? " she had
P: Jurare , D wef me hoe sure semource ? " IrE t0

L: " Hardly likely , my sweet . Luke's surgery goes on for
P: " Hardly likedy , my swet . Luke 's sargery goes an for

L: hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even
P: hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even

L: though they 're standing on one another's toes ,
P: though they 're standing on one another's toes ,

L: I 've got to see 'em . If I am free , though ,
P: ' ve got to seiex . I I an fre , though ,

L: I 'll give you a ring , O.K. ? " O.K. , " she had
P: Il yibve you a vig.DO.K. 3 . Ok , " she had

L: replied readily . So how could Nigel have
P: veyhied readily . So how could Nigel have

L: been at the Load of Trouble roadhouse ,
P: ben at the load of Frouble road house ,

L: dancing with a blonde at eight-thirty that
P: dancing with a blonde at eight thity that

L: " No , " she told Phil Gubbins , a junior
P: No .' she told Thil Gublins , a junior

L: houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you saw ,
P: houseman , " it wasn't digel you sow ,

L: my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway .
P: my lad . " I It was digel's car , amyway .

L: NUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car
P: HF 12A . . He probably loaned his car

L: to somebody , Phil . He 's always doing that . "
P: to nomelody . Thil . He's always doing that .

L: Young Gubbins shrugged . " I didn't see his
P: Gourng Bubiem shruged . " I didu't se his

L: face , Di , but it certainly looked like
P: face ,Di , but it cextainly loked like

L: Nigel from the back . D.j. and all .
P: eligel from the back . D.g- andal .

L: Of course such as I couldn't afford
P: O coure such as i couldn't afard

L: to go into the Load of Trouble . "
P: to go into the hoad of Frouble . "

L: But after that slight slip of the tongue on Nigel's part she had
P: But ofter thad slight dip of the longre on Nige 's peat he had

L: realised it was important enough for her to have remembered , and it
P: realised it was inportend erough for hes to havo rementered , and it

L: was as though a red mist veiled her usually clear sight and
P: was as though a red mist viled her neualy cloar sight and

L: made her think there was an abyss immediately ahead .
P: mads har thirh these was an alps inmediately ahoad .

L: " Nigel , " she had besought him , " you know that evening
P: " Nigl , " the had berought him , " you bow that evering

L: you took Luke Parson's surgery and there was a woman
P: yeou teoh lalne Brzon's argery and there was a woran

L: with a cyst on her ear ... ? "
P: with a get on hr ear-a 2l

L: " 5Ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kissed her on the
P: Be-s ? " he lowered his eyes and teised her on the

L: mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge .
P: mouth , an act of duotion he didm't over-indulge .

L: " What about it , my sweet ? " " Well , " she laughed
P: " What about it , any swet ? " " Wel , ' she langhed

L: suddenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid
P: sudenly in an upsurzing of reliy , '" Ehat shupid

L: Gubbins boy thought he saw you at the Load of Trouble .
P: Butins boy thought he saw you af the doad of Tronble .

L: With a blonde , too . Imagine ! " Nigel was frowning . He
P: With a blonde , Lo- Inagine ! " Migcl was frowming . He

L: looked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly
P: loked distinguished when he frouned ; beyishly

L: " Gubbins ? Gubbins ? " he fretted . " Who 's he ? "
P: " Cubins ? Cutbins ? " he trethir . Who's 4e ?-

L: Though Diana knew the name of every
P: Fhough Piane lnen the name of every

L: member of the staff , distinguished or not ,
P: member of the stafy , distinguisled on not ,

L: Nigel often had to think hard to sort
P: migel often hase to think hard to sat

L: them out . " He 's the carrotty lad , isn't he ? "
P: them ont . " We's the canoty 1ace , icril het "

L: he now demanded . " What was he
P: he now cemonodod . " Whet mas he

L: doing at the Load of Trouble ? "
P: aboing at the load of Froblei. "

L: I 'm going with a shooting party . What else can I do
P: Im going with a shosting parity . What else canldo

L: at this time of year ? I can't ask you up because it 's
P: al this time of year - Ican't ask youp because it's

L: a strictly stag affair . " " I know . I didn't expect ... " " Well ,
P: a strictly stay alfar . " " I krow . Ilidnt expect . " Wel ,

L: don't keep hinting , then . You wish you could
P: don't kep hinting , then . Yon wish you could

L: come with me ; you hope I 'll miss you ; you
P: come with me; you hope il mis you , your

L: can't imagine the hospital without me for
P: can't uapine the hospital without me for

L: three weeks , etcetera , etcetera ! "
P: the weks , elcelesa , etcelesa 1 1

L: Her figure was small and exquisite , like a schoolgirl's still , and
P: Her figue was soral ard exquisile , Whe i shreolgns stil , and

L: he admired her legs , which the male sex were inclined to
P: he cedrmured her legs , which the male rox wore indined to

L: regard first . " I would mind if you didn't " he told her
P: regard first . ' I would mind if yor didri't " he tld her

L: grimly , and tugged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're
P: ginly , and tuged ter perely into his cres . " Yeu 're

L: right , pet . I do need this leave . I 'm bad-tempered and
P: right , pet . I L0 ned thas leave . I n bed-termpered ard

L: broody and going out with brash blondes . I don't deserve
P: broedy ond pang out with brash Dlendes . I den't cleire

L: " Darling ! " her voiced caressed him . " Moments like this
P: barling her werced caresed him . " Moments like this

L: make all the waiting worth while . When we 're
P: make al the waiting worth wlile . When we' re

L: married we won't have these explosions of emotion ,
P: maried we won't nave these explesious of enctay

L: will we ? " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish we
P: wil we ( " WNo , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish be

L: were married , Di . Like a patient wishes his operation
P: were marned , Di, like a patent wsher his operation

L: was over . " Again her laughter trilled . " Marriage
P: was oves . " Agairn her laughtes trilel . " Marage

L: isn't as bad as an operation , Nigel ! "
P: But as bad as an gperation . Nigel ! '

L: " Isn't it ? " he rose and smoothed himself
P: "ut it l " he rose and semothed himself

L: down . " Ask any bridegroom-to-be . Anyhow ,
P: down . ' Ash any bridegrom-toibe . Angbow ,

L: that particular problem isn't looming at
P: that particlar probten isnt loning at

L: the moment , thank God ! " Problem ... ?
P: the moment , thash Grod ! " Problem. .

L: looming ... ? " Are we discussing a marriage
P: loming . . " Are we discusing a mariage

L: or a burial ? " she asked , hardly believing
P: or a burial ) ' she ashed , hardly believing

L: he could be serious . " Surely marrying
P: he could be serious . " Surely marying

L: me isn't going to be all that bad ?
P: e is't going to be al that bad ?

L: If it is - " she laughed uncertainly - " you can have
P: Y 1 5s. .' she langned uncertainly - " you can have

L: your ring back . " She loosened the half-hoop of
P: your ting back . ' She loasened the haly - hop of

L: diamonds on her left hand third finger and held it
P: damonds on her uy hand third pinger and held it

L: out to him , still playfully . Without a glimmer
P: out to m , shil playnily . Wirhout a geunmer

L: of amusement in his own eyes , however , he took
P: of amusement in his own eyes , nowever , he foh

L: it , looking moodily beyond her . " Perhaps it 's as
P: t , Toing modivy beyond Mer . ' Perhaps it's as

L: well if you don't wear it for a bit , Di , " he
P: w ai fr a bit , Di , '" he

L: " But I want it ! " she protested . " It 's my ring . "
P: But I went it ceh proterted . Us uy ring . '

L: " You just gave it back to me . " " I
P: " yon yrst gave it bach to me n )

L: didn't ! I was joking . You know I was
P: distn ' ! . I was poting , Jouknow ) was

L: joking , Nigel . " " You shouldn't joke
P: poting , Myet " " you shouldnl joter

L: about serious things like engagements . "
P: abont serious things lite engagereits. "

L: " Don't be such a baby ! " They were going
P: ' pont be such a baly ! " They were goings

L: to have an open quarrel
P: fo have gun ojeus qurarinet any

L: any minute , and she knew it .
P: eritrte , and shr lew its

L: Almost in desperation she appealed , " Will you meet
P: Mmost in desperation she apealed ,. " Wil you met

L: me at the gate , four o'clock tomorrow ? " " Why ? " he
P: te at the gate , Four dcleck tomorowf " " Why ? " he

L: enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring
P: Anqured , combing his thick , tawng hair . " Te bring

L: me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I 'll see , "
P: te up for tea , of course . I just thowoghl : Bl ser ,

L: he told her , and suddenly seized her in an embrace
P: he told her , and sudenly seized her it an embrace

L: which really hurt . " Without your ring it 's just like
P: which realy hurt . " Without your rig it 's just like

L: kissing somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,
P: kising somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,

L: and kissed her again , somewhat startled to
P: and kised her agein , somewhat statled to

L: receive a sharp slap for his pains .
P: receinves a shorp slap for his pains .

L: " If I were somebody else's girl that 's
P: "f I wore somabody else's gilh that's ,

L: what you 'd get , " she flashed at him , and
P: what you'd get , ' she flashed at nirm , and

L: so had left him , on her dignity and not
P: so hat feft him , on her dignity and not

L: seeing the look of admiration and revelation
P: soeing the lok ofadmiration and revelation

L: which had followed her slim young figure
P: which had fofowed her sfim young figure

L: out of his sight . " Mine , " Nigel Lester had
P: out of his sight , " Minei Nigel Lostor had

L: decided with a sigh of satisfaction , and
P: decided with a sigh of sofis fa cfionsnd

L: then regarded the ring which he retrieved
P: Fthenregarded the ring wich he retrieved

L: from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded ,
P: fromhis pocket . ' At a price , ' he conduded ,

L: with some bitterness .
P: with cone biftor nos

L: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now
P: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now

L: Diana was trailing up the gravelled drive to the hospital
P: Driana was tralking up the graveled drive to the hospital

L: alone . Of course one couldn't say for certain when a
P: alone . Of course one couldu't suy for certain when a

L: doctor would be free during the day ; tea was served
P: doctor would be fire during the day y tea was served

L: from four until five-thirty in the residents' common-
P: from four wntil fove -thirty in the residents' comow

L: room , which proved the elasticity of medical commitments .
P: rom , which proved the elasticity of medical comitments .

L: Something had cropped up which required Nigel's attention ,
P: Sonething hed croped up which required Nie 's atention ,

L: she was convinced , or he would have granted her small request
P: the was conrinced io would have grnted her smal reguest

L: Sentence Database P03-189
P: iorsterice Datalase pO3-159

L: They often had such a rendezvous , for
P: They aften had sech a rendegynares , for

L: there was just time to smoke a cigarette ,
P: there was jiust time to smotse a cigarete ,

L: if one walked slowly , between road and
P: if are walhed slarvly , betwen noad and

L: His mouth hardened , his eyes became
P: This month hardened , his eyes became

L: steely . ' I see . ' Scorn lashed his
P: stely . I Ise ' Seom lasted his

L: words . ' I wonder you dared trust
P: eords . ' IWonces you dared trust

L: him to my care . ' ' Nicholas - '
P: lien to my care " " Nickclas .'

L: ' Well ! At least I know the truth .
P: ' Wele I A least I lenorw the truth .

L: Truth ! ' His gaze held hers
P: FruthR ' Whies gaye held hers

L: masterfully . ' You wanted it so
P: martrfuly . ' Yon wamfed it so

L: badly - at any price . I hope
P: backly : ' at any prege Ihope

L: you are satisfied . '
P: you are ratisfried .

L: And as he spoke , the thought
P: And as he spohe , the thought

L: of Philip lying in the other
P: of Philip hyin, in the ofher

L: room filled him with a re-
P: pomfuled Nhen with a ve-

L: vulsion that was homicidal .
P: yonlationthat wastomoeidal .

L: Even in that , his hands were
P: Cevren in frad tislands wvere

L: tied . He dare not precipitate
P: hed . The care not precpitate

L: what might well be another
P: what niught wel be ancthes

L: coronary . And in that second
P: coronarpafud inthat -secad

L: he put back his professional
P: he prt acke hiesprofesional

L: mantle , and said with such
P: mantle , and rand with seuch

L: icy politeness , such withdrawn
P: lay polteners , uch itldrar

L: ' I will leave you the necessary pre-
P: ' J Wil leave youthnecusary pre-

L: scription for the sedatives . You
P: scriptions for the redatives , Gor

L: will contact your new doctor
P: wil coutact youhewdo as

L: when you reach your parents'
P: whenyonreach ous parents !

L: house . ' She watched him flick
P: loume . ' Thewvathed eien fhck

L: his fountain-pen from his
P: hies fountain-pen from his

L: waistcoat pocket , take out
P: waistcat pochet , take out

L: his # prescription pad , and
P: his yt prescrngtonpad , ausd

L: # scribble on it . Then ,
P: wmsbred scrible an it . Then ,

L: with a gesture she knew so well ,
P: with a gesture the kner sowel ,

L: he tore off the leaflet and
P: the fas of the leaftet anod

L: ' Good-bye , Sandra , ' he said
P: ' God bye , Sasdra ! he sand

L: with a deadly finality . Watching
P: with a deadly finality . Watding

L: him go , unable to speak , she
P: liemgo , unableto -peah , the

L: felt that part of her was leaving
P: Selt that part of hes wasleaving

L: him . She couldn't hate him ...
P: hism . She coueld't hate him.

L: If only he would have con-
P: of only he would have con-

L: fided in her , given some expla-
P: fded her , given-ome exgha-

L: nation . Now there was no-
P: hation , how there was no -

L: thing - not even friendship .
P: thiny - eot even friendlip .

L: She went back to Philip . But
P: the wet bach to Fhilyp . But

L: all she could hear were Nicholas's
P: al she could hear were Nichdans

L: words : ' I love you - oh , you
P: words : ' love you -oh , you

L: know that well enough . '
P: Anow that wel enough . '

L: Love . She revolted against
P: dowe . She revolted ajanent

L: the word . Nicholas , Philip ...
P: the word . Miclolos , Philip .

L: where was happiness , or
P: Where washapner , or

L: peace of mind ? Philip put out
P: peace of tind ? Phileps put out

L: a hand and grasped hers .
P: a hand and grasped hes.

L: He needed her . She would find
P: Heneded hes theworld find

L: solace in that fact at least .
P: volance in ploat fact at bart .

L: She had her truth . How much had built
P: Thehad her truth . Houvach had boielt

L: up from that first ideal , and how
P: up omthat fist edeal , and kow

L: little joy , or satisfaction , it had
P: litle joy , ar satisfactionicthad

L: given her . ' I 'm sorry , darling . '
P: gven hes . Iusory derky . '

L: He looked nervous . It had been
P: the yokd wervous ty' had ben

L: hell lying there , knowing she was
P: hel Lgny there , knowng shewes

L: talking to Nicholas and wondering
P: talkir to Nicholas and wonding

L: what they were saying . Sandra
P: what they were saying . Endera

L: said instinctively : ' I told him
P: band ustinctively : ' Itolal him

L: I knew he was responsible for
P: I knew hes was respousable for

L: Her eyes darkened in torment . ' Are
P: Hes eyes dlarfened intorment .' Are

L: you sure that she was telling the truth ? '
P: you sure that she was telny thetruth s"

L: ' Good heavens , darling , why on earth
P: " God heavens , darling , why onearth

L: should she lie ? Besides , it wasn't just
P: shoueld he hie Beside , it wasult giul

L: her word . There was enough evidence ,
P: herword . There was enoh evidnce ,

L: no matter how one might want to
P: hesather how one sight want to

L: disbelieve the facts . ' Elation
P: dis beliem Mefacts Elation

L: touched him after the cold wind
P: touched hn afer the cold wind

L: of suspense . ' It will be interesting
P: of mespense . ' Itwil bhe interertiyg

L: to see what comes out at the inquest .
P: to se what comesout at the vnpurt

L: What his story will be . I reckon
P: What hies tory wil be I rechor

L: he 'll confine himself to the nervous
P: hel coufne hnself to the hervows

L: origin of her recent illness . His notes
P: oriyin of her receunt ilnes . His notes

L: will be truthful , but what he leaves out
P: wil be truthfcl , but what he haves out

L: will matter most . ' Strange how just
P: wilmatfer most .' Straye how ber )

L: then Philip was so certain that Nicholas
P: then Philep was so ectain that hyicholes

L: would never betray him . He loved
P: would never betray him . He loved

L: Sandra too deeply to ruin her
P: Sandera to two deaply to puin her

L: future happiness . Had ever circum-
P: futere haypnens . Had eveseir eun -

L: stances conspired so cunningly ?
P: shances couspisd so cuminflfy ,

L: Philip's spirits soared .
P: Rhulip's tiet osered .

L: He was better ; he had made a
P: He was befter , he had made a

L: miraculous recovery and Sandra would
P: nuraculous recovery and lendra would

L: soon be his wife . The Devil , he thought ,
P: Fom tolbs wig . The Pereil he toget ,

L: certainly looked after his own .
P: Cartainly loked afes his orw

L: Something in Sandra's attitude struck
P: Something inlandra's atitude struch
