L: He rose from his breakfast-nook bench
P: He lose from his breakfast-not bech

L: and came into the livingroom , where
P: and come into the Livingrou , where

L: Heather and Steve stood aghast at
P: Heatler and Heve Hod agpans at

L: his entrance . He came , almost falling
P: Pis entrance . He cone , almort falking

L: forward in an ungainly shuffle , neck
P: forward in Oh ungainly slufle , nec

L: thrust out , arms dangling loosely .
P: Hast oct , aos dangling losely .

L: Then , abruptly , he drew himself up
P: Then , abimply , be diew limself up

L: and walked on the very tips of
P: And wolked on We very hips of

L: his toes . He stretched his arms
P: his loes . He shetcled dis orus

L: over his head and yawned agape ,
P: over his lead and youned agoped ,

L: drawing-in great breaths that
P: drawing- in gred beals 120l

L: became great sighs of ecstacy .
P: become acalialadlaloe

L: " They have come ! " he said reverently , gripping his
P: The , have come ! " he said reverently , griping his

L: hands together between his knees and leaning
P: hands together betwen his knes and leaning

L: forward . " Isn't it a glorious thing ! Long awaited
P: forword . " Bn't it a glorious thing ! I ong awoited

L: transcendent event , the exalted desire of all
P: transcendent event , the exalted desire of al

L: mankind through all ages ! The Kingdom of the
P: mankind through al ages ! The Kingdom of the

L: Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes
P: Hind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes

L: upward and shook his head slowly from
P: upward and shok his head slowly from

L: A superfluous precaution for there was no other car
P: A superfluos precantion for there was no other car

L: abroad ; and no pedestrian to cross his path nor to wait
P: abroad ; and no pedestrion to crow his path nor to wait

L: at an intersection for the light to change . At his
P: at an intersection for the light to change . At his

L: apartment he garaged his car and then stood
P: apartment he garaged his car and then stod

L: listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the
P: listening in the night . Listening in Vain . For the

L: earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart
P: earth had lost its life-temps , as the leart

L: Deadly stillness , deadly portent !
P: Deadly stilnes , deadly portent !

L: Steve awakened early and switched on
P: Steve awakened early and switched on

L: the radio , which he kept tuned to CBO.
P: the radio , which he kept tned to C80 .

L: The set lighted-up but gave only a low
P: The set lighted-up but gave only a low

L: buzzing sound . He had just finished
P: buezing sond . He had just finished

L: shaving when it came on , with a flat
P: shaving when it came on , with a flat

L: voice repeating : " This is BBC calling
P: voice repecting : " This is #8C caling

L: ... this is BBC calling ... "
P: " " this is oc caling . . . "

L: After what seemed an undue period of repetition , the voice
P: ifpor what remed an uncme peried of repotition , the wice

L: went on to describe the landing of the Thetan colony
P: went on to chscribe the laning of the Thctan colony

L: in Sussex , in all its obscene details . Then the radio
P: in Husex , in al its obsece details . Then the radic

L: went dead again , and Steve had no stomach for
P: went dheal again , and there had me stomach for

L: breakfast . It was a beautiful day , as firsts-of-June
P: treatifusl . It was a beantiful day , as firsts - of - June

L: should be . Steve got out the car and traversed the
P: should be . Hhere got out the car and trawersed the

L: same empty streets as he had the night before ,
P: Saime cupty strects as he had the might before ,

L: to keep an appointment with Heather .
P: to kep ape apointment with feather .

L: Coming around the great mass of the Chateau
P: coming around the great mas of the Chatean

L: Laurier , he braked to a screeching stop . A
P: hausier , he baket to a screching otop . P

L: flying saucer was tilting and dipping over
P: flying sancer was tilking and diping over

L: the War Memorial . There was a deep
P: the War Hemorial . There was a dep

L: whirring sound , and a high-pitched hissing
P: whioving ound , and a high-pitched lining

L: overtone that sang in his ears with an
P: overtone that sany in his ears with an

L: almost painful sharpness . He reversed and
P: almost painful chaipners . He seversed and

L: turned back on McKenzie Avenue .
P: turmned back on te Vengie Avene ,

L: " The Thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to
P: " The Petans , " he said , " are preoumably here to

L: take charge , as it were , of the minds of the
P: take charge , as it were , of the minds of the

L: people - who are probably falling all over them-
P: people - who are probably faling al over them-

L: selves in their zeal to get their orders and to carry
P: selves in ther geal to get their onders and to cary

L: them out . Just what these orders will be , we don't
P: them out . Just what these onders , wil be , we don't

L: know . Now , because of prior hypnosis we have es-
P: know . Now , because of priox luypnots we lave es-

L: caped Thetan subjugation . This time . But we no
P: caped thetan subjugation . This time . But we no

L: longer have any immunity .
P: longer have any imunity .

L: There is just a hope that we may uncover
P: There is just a hope that we may uncover

L: some weakness , and find a way of fighting
P: some weaknes , and find a way of fightling

L: back at them . " Heather agreed , and suggested
P: back at them . " feather agred , and sugested

L: that they use Dan as a specimen demonstra-
P: that they use Dan as a specimen demonodea-

L: ting how the Thetan machinations had been
P: ting how the Phetan machinations had ben

L: working out . It occurred to Steve that this may
P: working out . It ocured to Sleve that this may

L: not have been entirely an objective suggestion
P: not have ben euticely an objective ongeation

L: on her part ; but he thought it a good idea
P: on her part ; but he thought it a god idea

L: There can be little doubt that if the
P: The m can be litle doubt that if the

L: Thetans discover our mental independence
P: Thetains discoves our mentul independece

L: they will promptly give us their hypnotic
P: they wil probubly give us their hypnotic

L: treatment . If we can avoid undue
P: treatament . If we cus evoid indue

L: prominence , it may be that we can
P: prominence , it may be that we can

L: move about pretty freely without
P: more about punty thehe withonh

L: detection . If we can - well , then we
P: detections . Ihe can - wel , them we

L: may be able to promote our own
P: may be able to promote our

L: interests . What those interests
P: interets . What those intereats

L: are , beyond personal security ,
P: are , beyoud perconal securite ,

L: I haven't a clue ; but , who knows ,
P: I hum's a cluey but , who knows ,

L: we may form the nucleus around ...
P: un may tomhenuchusand .

L: When he finally beckoned to them to enter , the action
P: When he finaly bechoned to them to enter , the action

L: gave the impression of having been thought out and
P: gave the impresion of having ben thought out and

L: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidden , while
P: decided upon . Inside they sat down unbiden , while

L: Dan paced the floor . He seemed completely unaware
P: Bon paced the flour . He semed completely unaware

L: of their presence . They just stared at him , turning
P: of their precence . They just stared at him , tuning

L: their heads like tennis spectators as he walked up and
P: their heads like ternis spectators as he walked up and

L: " Now , to summarize what I think our
P: " Now , to sumarise what I think our

L: course of action should be . First , to avoid the
P: course of action should be . First to avoid the

L: Thetans like the plague , for they must not
P: Thetans like the plagure , por they must not

L: find us out ! Second , to tread pretty warily
P: find us out ! Second , to tread prety warily

L: among our own people , finding out just how
P: among our own people , finding out just low

L: much freedom we can take with safety .
P: much fredom we can take with safety ,

L: And third , to study these damned Thetans .
P: And third , to study these dauned Thotans .

L: We must learn all we can about
P: We must learn al we can about

L: So they proceeded to see if the coast
P: So they proceded to se if the coact

L: was clear . The street was quiet and
P: was clear . The stret was quiet and

L: deserted , and there were neither sight
P: desterted and there were weither sight

L: nor sound of flying saucers . So they
P: nor soud of flying sancers So they

L: ventured forth and made their way on
P: ventured forth and tade their way on

L: foot to Dan's house . Dan came
P: fot to Dan's house . Don come

L: to the door at their ring but neglected
P: to the dor at their ring but replected

L: to offer any greeting . He was deeply
P: to ofer any greting . He was deply

L: preoccupied , and it seemed that the
P: preocupied , and it semed that the

L: ringing of a doorbell was to him
P: hinging of a dorbel was to him

L: a new and strange phenomenon .
P: a new and stroge phenomenon .

L: His whole attitude was a mixture of
P: His whole atitule was a miture of

L: impatience pending an awaited
P: impatience peading an awaited

L: communication and of a vague
P: Comunication and of a vague

L: perplexity respecting his surroundings
P: perplexity respecting his surardings

L: and the purpose he was to serve .
P: and the purpose he was to serve .

L: Finally , being so obviously on their own ,
P: Finaly , being so obviously on their own ,

L: Heather and Steve tried to make themselves
P: Heather and sleve triek to moke themselves

L: at home . Steve switched on Dan's
P: at home . Stere switched on Pan 's

L: powerful , world-wide radio and systematically
P: power ful , world-wide radio and sys tematicaly

L: turned the tuning knob through all the
P: turned the tuing hnob through al the

L: tuning points of the world's great radio
P: tunina points of theaodereat sactio

L: They followed him to a city bus stop on Carling Avenue , where
P: They folowed him to a city bous stop on Earling tiveme , where

L: he waited . The bus stop was a deserted island on an empty street .
P: he waited . The leve stop was a deseted istand on a eupty strect .

L: But not for long , for soon pedestrians and cars flocked upon
P: But not for long , for scompedections and cas flocked upon

L: the Avenue from its many tributary streets . It might have
P: the Areme from its many trilunay strects. It might have

L: been a normal business-day bustle , except for two anomalies .
P: ben a normal burines-day luotle , except for two anomalies .

L: First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone
P: First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone

L: walked , or drove , or waited as a person possessed of
P: warked , or drove , or waited as a person posesed of

L: a single all-exclusive purpose .
P: a single al-exclusive purpose .

L: After a long wait a bus appeared and they
P: After a long nait a bus apeared and they

L: followed the beaming Dan aboard , taking
P: folowed the learing bien abourd , taking

L: seats some rows behind him . Steve was
P: sects some rows behind him . Hece was

L: beginning to find the stereotyped , flattish , happy
P: begining to find the sterechyed . Shutish , hupy

L: faces very disconcerting ; and looking at
P: fuces very discomcerting ; and loking at

L: Heather he found a welcome relief in her
P: Heather he found a wehome reliet in her

L: relatively long doleful one
P: relutively lony eloleful one

L: Then he would go back to Plato for a final spell of
P: Then he would go back to Pato for a final spel of

L: real days and would return to New York in late
P: real days and would return to New Yock in late

L: January or early February . Angelina might be a
P: Jamnary or early Fobmary . Angelina might be a

L: little sorry if we were not back for Christmas
P: litle sawy if we were not back for Chist mas

L: as arranged , but he consoled himself by
P: as arangel , but he consoled himset by

L: thinking that he and Angelina would have
P: thinking that he and Angelina would have

L: plenty of time together in the future . And
P: Planty of time together in the future . And

L: Heaven alone knew when , if ever , he would be
P: Heaven alone knew uohn , if ever , he would be

L: back on Moon again , and able to do
P: back on Hon again , and able to do

L: research at first hand into matters on which
P: research at first hand into maters on which

L: the future of everyone , including Angelina , depended ...
P: the future of everyone , including Augclina , depende .

L: The recovery of his balance was due to the
P: The recovery of his balance was due to the

L: fact that he was living , virtually without
P: Bact that he was leving , vodualy without

L: expenses , with the people to whom Moke had
P: excremses , with the people to whom Moke had

L: sent him : little people who regarded him as
P: sent him : litle people who regareded him as

L: lucky to have descended from such economic altitudes .
P: lucty to have descended from such economic altitudes .

L: Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the Secretariat
P: fom Dreyfus had a job on the mochines in the Secretiatial

L: ( Stamp Department ) while Sally sulked at home .
P: ( slamp Department ) while saly salked at home ,

L: They had been married for six years , but the
P: They had ben maried for six years , but the

L: salary raise , on the expectation of which they
P: salary raize , on the expectation of which they

L: had done so , had not materialised . " Do you
P: had cone so , had not materialsed . " 0 you

L: know , I had to send back our bedroom
P: know , I had to send back our bedrom

L: furniture in the second year , " she moaned . She
P: formiture in the second year , I she meared . She

L: had contacts in political circles , a school-
P: had contacts in political circles , a schol-

L: friend of hers having married Lester Peron ,
P: friend of hers having maried Lester Peron ,

L: a Mocrat Senator with a seat on the
P: a Mocret Senator with a seat on the

L: ( literally ) all-powerful Rocket Release
P: Lliteraly) al-powerful reochet Relcase

L: Sometimes she took Harry around with her , but
P: Sometimes she tok Mary around with her , but

L: never her husband , a fact he accepted as inevitable . " I guess
P: never her husband , a fact he acepted as inwvitable . " I gres

L: Sally made a mistake about me , " he said one
P: Fifly made a mistake abatme , " he said one

L: evening , when he had been left to cook his own meal .
P: evening , when he had ben left to cock his own mat ,

L: All Sally's relations were 4makrodeb now , but Tom
P: Al sily's relations were tmatrodbs now , but Tom

L: was a Static Mib , the middle-income-bracket equivalent
P: was a static Mib , the midle-income-brocket equivatent

L: All Aristotle was excited at the time , not by the prospect of the
P: The cristable was eviled at the tine , not by the prospect of the

L: U.S. President's visit , but by a great storm in the photo-
P: U.S. President's visid , but by a great shom in the plotos -

L: sphere of the sun . A matter which on Earth would hardly
P: phere of the sure . I mater which on Earth could hardly

L: penetrate beyond the minds of astronomers was of general
P: sexetrande beyord the minds of asteraners was of general

L: interest to the Mos , doubtless because their habitat is
P: untrest citerest to the lox , doubles because their habiter is

L: not submerged beneath a deep natural atmosphere .
P: not submergd bereth a ders rateral atmosptore .

L: One wondered if this greater awareness of the physical cosmos might
P: the wondered it this preater awenes at the phpical coms might

L: with time instil the reverence which , on Earth , nature inspires ,
P: With time instil the reverence which , on Eaith , natue imspives ,

L: especially when one reflected that the rockets over which Mr. Peron's
P: expcialy when one reflected that the retele over which Mr.Pownis

L: Board presided had it in their power permanently to warp the
P: Bod previded had it in their power permanently to wary the

L: solar system . True enough , such ultimate weapons had not been
P: sedar syster . Thne enough , such ultimate weapons had not ben

L: used in the last few wars , but it seemed very probable
P: used in the lest tol few wars . but it semed vep proble

L: that they would be in the next one , Moon and her
P: that they would be in the teat next one , Mon and her

L: allies being more inferior than formerly to W.C.U. in the
P: alies being more inferior than formady to 4. C. U. in the

L: weapons pronounced conventional .
P: Weapons pronounced conventional

L: Lester was not home yet from his formidable
P: Lesterwas not home yet from his formidable

L: duties and his wife , in the manner of middle-brow
P: dluties and his wife , in the moner of midle-brow

L: wives , romanced about him in his absence . " Lester was a
P: Wiles , romanced about himein his absence . " Lester was a

L: country lawyer , and we were very small 4microdebs , weren't we ,
P: country lawper , and we were verysmal I micradels ,weventive ,

L: Sally " - here she had dropped her voice in homage to the
P: Saly " - here she had droped her Vvice in hanage to the

L: economic system : that was reverenced - " when he thought
P: economic system : that was reverened - " when he though

L: we might get GO a bit better if he entered politics .
P: We might get G,0 a bit beter if he entered polities .

L: Know how he did it ? He 's clever on
P: know how he did it ? He's clever on

L: the mouth-organ . So when he visited some
P: the month-organ . So when he visited some

L: craterlet on Face ( ours is an agricultural
P: craterlet on Tachours is an agricultoral

L: Back-Face area ) the cry would go up ,
P: Back-Face area ) the cry would go up ,

L: as soon as he had spoken a few
P: as son as he had spoken a few

L: sentences of his speech : ' Cut the
P: sentences of his speck : " Cut the

L: politics , Lester , give us something on
P: politics , Lester , give us something on

L: But since starting salaries would depend on grade A
P: But sunce starting salaries would depand on geade t

L: or B in the finals next May , and since mating
P: or B in the finals next Nay , and since matins

L: prospects would depend upon salaries , scholarship for
P: prospects would depend upon salaries , schlarshin for

L: these fine young people was closely geared to
P: these fine young people was desely geared to

L: economic and biological ends which , essentially ,
P: economic and biological ends e which , esentialy ,

L: were really means . So , seeing them revolve in
P: Were realy means . So , sesing them readver in

L: circles , Harry had the feeling that Moke ( or what
P: cirdes , Mary had the Pefing that Moke Cor whaten

L: Moke consciously or unconsciously symbolised , any-
P: Mole consciously oxc unconscinbly symldised , any-

L: way in Harry's mind ) had these splendid young
P: way in Mary's mind ) had these splendid yours

L: people by the short hairs , and was diverting them ...
P: people by the sbort hairs , and was diverting them .

L: That 's how he got the votes , that 's how
P: That 's how he got the votes , that 's how

L: we came through to 4makrodeb status and
P: we came through to Umatrodebs status and

L: got all these lovely things " - she waved a
P: got al these fovely things ' - she waved a

L: plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc :
P: plump hand towards her grand pianos , etci

L: at the same time a door banged - " but don't
P: at the same time a dor banged - " but don't

L: say a word about it , Lester wants his
P: say a word about if , Lester wants his

L: mouth-organ to be forgotten now . The time
P: mouth-organ to be forgothen now . The time

L: has come for him to be taken seriously
P: has come for him to be taken seriously

L: Peron entered , a large man , who had once been
P: Pero. extered , a lorg man , who had once ben

L: handsome but was now seedy-looking , a sufferer
P: handsome but was now sedy-loking , a suferer

L: from stomach-ulcers . In the Back-Face tradition he
P: From stomach-wlers . In the Back-toce todition he

L: wore , and kept on indoors , a fifty gallon hat . Harry was
P: more , and kept on indors , a fifty golon hat .Hery was

L: prepared for something unpleasant , for this was
P: prepared for something umpleasant , for this was

L: the Senator who had annoyed the United States
P: the senator who had anoyed the United states

L: by bragging how he had once won a trick from
P: by broging hom he had once wan a trick from

L: W.C.U. by threatening to loose off one of his
P: W.C.L. by threatering to lose of one of his

L: rockets ( an admission which would scarcely help
P: rockets lon admision which would scorcely telp

L: bluff to succeed the next time ) and , lately , by
P: blutf to soced the next time Yard , lately , by

L: saying that if Mo land-troops had to come to the aid
P: saying that if Moland-trops had to come to the aid

L: of the O.G.O. contingent in the Panama region ,
P: aftexeredicediatelceaecesise

L: But privately he turned out to be as friendly as
P: But privately he turned out to be as friandly as

L: Mr. Wise the tube manufacturer , to have the same adolescent
P: Mr. Wise the tuke mranutacturer , to have tho came abolesent

L: openness and freshness , though perhaps not the same
P: openes and frchnes , though perhaps not the same

L: maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer
P: maturity . Ore remembered that he was a lawper

L: by training , and suspected that the points he made
P: by training , and suspected that the points he made

L: so sharply in international politics were as abstract
P: so sharply in international polities evere as abstract

L: to him as those a lawyer makes in a court
P: to him as those a lawper makes in a court

L: The motive would be the same in both cases , to
P: The motive would be the same in both cases , to

L: serve this home of his , in which his heart lay .
P: serve this home of his , in which his heart lay .

L: Here the rocket man's charm was disarming . Yet
P: Here the rocket man's charm was disarming . Yet

L: when the time came to leave , Harry felt as de-
P: when the time came to leave , Hary felt as de-

L: pressed as when he left Mrs. Halliday's office ,
P: presed as when he left Mrs. Htaliday's ofice ,

L: exactly a month ago . If even Mo statesmen only
P: exactly a month ago . If even Mo statemen only

L: did what they had to do to get GO on an expan-
P: did what they had to do to get 60 on an expan-

L: ding scale , and left the sum-total of their actions ,
P: ding scale , and left the sum-tofal of their actions ,

L: and their lunar and earthly repercussions , to luck
P: and their Lunar and earthly repercusions , to luch

L: ( or to Moke ) , there was a vacuum where there should
P: (or to Moke ) , there was a vacum where there should

L: be a centre of trust , responsible for the maintenance
P: be a centre of trust , responsible for the mainterance

L: The political life of Aristotle looked more and more
P: The political lile of arutotle loked more and more

L: like a masquerade of business interests in dis-
P: labe a masquerade of Burines interests in di-

L: guise which , far from attracting the allegiance
P: quise which , ear from atracting the alegiance

L: of free men everywhere , could only repel them .
P: of fre men everywhere , could only repel them .

L: Then what of the cultural life ? Did this per-
P: Then what of the cultural lile ? Did this per-

L: haps nurture a genuinely civilizing impulse
P: haps nurture a geninely civiliging impule

L: which might in time become social fact
P: which might in time Decome social lact

L: and counteract the obsession with economics
P: and counteract the obsesion with economies

L: which had grown up during the Moon's
P: which had grown up during the Hown's

L: At the centre of each circle stood personnel
P: At the centre of each cirle stod personal

L: managers of corporations , together with professors
P: managers of corporations , together with profeors

L: and their filing clerks . The students had
P: and their filing clestes . The stuckets had

L: bought their college education forward and
P: bought their colege aducation . forward and

L: were now being bought forward in their
P: were now being brught forward in thei's

L: turn . By comparing personal appearances
P: thre . By comparing personal apearances

L: with university records , the agents of the
P: uith unicesity records , the ogentr of the

L: businesses would pick on young men
P: busineses would pick on young men

L: and women who interested them , and contracts
P: and women who inwrested then , ad contract ,

L: would be initialled at the end of
P: would be initialed at the end of

L: Stepping out in their white shorts , they looked glad enough
P: Steping out in their white shorts , they Colol exough

L: to be diverted , however , with the single exception of one
P: to be alivestal , howeves , with the sugle exception of one

L: worried little man-student who kept getting out of
P: vorical Citle man-student who lopt gothing out of

L: step . He looked as if nothing Moke and his
P: stays . He lockoal as if nothing Moke and his

L: minions could do to him would ever make him
P: minions coulal do to him wold over make him

L: GO ; but the reason probably lay in elementary
P: CD , but the reason probably lay in elomtary

L: neurosis and not in some eruption from those
P: nearesis and not in some exuption from those

L: deeper layers in the human psyche which are
P: olbeyer layars in the human psyche which an

L: So once again the metaphysics were depressing ,
P: So once again the metaphysics were depresing ,

L: and in absolute contrast to the physical display .
P: and in absolute controst to the physical display .

L: Mos have an un-American love of parades , and
P: Mos have an un- American love of parades , and

L: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they
P: these young ones , on parade for jobs which they

L: had to get to pay off their college bills , were naturally
P: had to get of their colege bils , were naturaly

L: putting their best foot forward .
P: puting their best fot forward .

L: ' Something 's up , ' said Lord Undertone ,
P: " Something's up , " ' said Lord Undertone ,

L: carefully casual . ' The servants are all on
P: carefuly casual . " The servents are al on

L: edge ... did you notice ? And the mules
P: edge . did you notice ? And the mules

L: didn't seem to want to get off the raft . '
P: dicdn't sem to want to get of the reft . "

L: He peered as it were into the dark secrets
P: He pered as it were into the dark secrets

L: of the jungle . ' Think there 's Indians
P: of the jungle . " Think there's Indieus

L: about ? ' It was most certainly an eerie
P: about ? " It was most certainly an cerie

L: night , exceptionally brilliant and strange ,
P: night , exceptionaly brilient and strange ,

L: for in the proximity of the mountains ,
P: for in the procinity of the monutains ,

L: whose presence I could almost smell ,
P: whose presence I could almost smel ,

L: ' Impressive , ' Lord Undertone said , gazing reverently
P: 'mpresive , " Lord Ondertone said , gazing reverently

L: on the cosmic handiwork . ' All those stars . But I 'm
P: on the cosmic handiwork . ' Al those stars . But I 'm

L: a bit earthbound tonight , Trout . I 've got a queer
P: a bit cathbord tonigfht , Trot , I 've got a quer

L: feeling , like I always get when something
P: feling , like I always get when something

L: sensational 's going to happen . There 's things lurking
P: sesaional's going to hapen . There's bings lorking

L: if you ask me . Might be jaguar , might be ...
P: it you ask ne . hight be jagoar , might be .

L: Hope I die kind of composed , Trout . I mean you can't
P: Hope I dis kind of composed , Front , I mean you can't

L: imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking ,
P: imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking

L: no matter how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a
P: no mater how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a

L: lion munching , or arrows where it hurts most . Or
P: Cion muching , or arows where it hurts most . Or

L: can you . Look over there . ' He pointed to the
P: can you Loke over there . ' He pointed to the

L: shadows beyond the river . ' Something moved . '
P: sholous beyard the ricer . ' Something moved . "

L: ' Bottle-Foot , my lord . ' ' Bottle-Foot ? ' His lordship
P: Batle - Fot , my lord . ' Batle Feat ? ' His lordship

L: may have thought I had become unbalanced
P: may have thought I had become unbalaned

L: through fear . ' A character Mr Gilberto mentioned
P: through foar . ' A character Mr filbect mentioned

L: to other day , my lord . A being of whom
P: to o other day , my land . A being of whom

L: the forest Indians are said to be mortally
P: ther fasest Indians are said to be mastaly

L: afraid , with a hoof shaped like the heel
P: afsaid , with a frosf shaped like the hel

L: of a bottle . If your lordship will excuse me
P: of a botle . If your lardship wil exense me

L: Small , repulsive creatures they were ,
P: Smal , repulsive creatures they were ,

L: with black , matted hair and a striking
P: with black , mated hair and striking

L: resemblance to the shrunk heads we had
P: resemblance to the shrmuk heads we had

L: gazed at recently ; and I have no
P: gased at recently ; and I have no

L: hesitation in saying that they would have
P: hesitation in saying that they would have

L: made an end of us but for an intervention
P: made an end of uo but for an intervention

L: so unexpected , so unusual , that only the
P: so unexpected , so musual , that anbe the

L: necessity of rounding my narrative
P: necesity of rounding my norative

L: compels me to mention it .
P: compels me to mectian it .

L: I had a distinct impression that the
P: I hada distinct impresion that the

L: hut had recently been cleaned and
P: but had recently ben cleared aind

L: prepared for visitors . Mrs Caine said
P: prepared for visiturs . Mrs Caine said

L: we were to go no further unless and
P: he were to go no further unles and

L: until we were sent for , confirming
P: until we were sent for , confirming

L: another impression that became more
P: another impesion that became more

L: and more definite , namely , that
P: and more definite , namnly , that

L: she was in touch with an invi-
P: she was in touch with an invi-

L: sible source of authority .
P: gible souce of authority .

L: Sally and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely
P: Saly and of caurse Mrs Reptinus , for surely

L: Mr Septimus stood in the same case as
P: Mr Septinus stod in the same case as

L: myself ? But was it so ? I allowed myself
P: myself ? But was it so ? I alowed myself

L: to entertain for an instant the idea , the
P: to enterlain for an unstant the idea , the

L: strange , the unwelcome , the almost
P: o gtrang , the unwelcome , the Amost

L: inconceivable idea , that Ariadne's arrival
P: inconveniarcable idea , hat Aricde's arival

L: would be inopportune ; and with the idea came
P: would be inoportune ; and with the idea came

L: a somewhat vulgar impulse , which I refused ,
P: a somewhat rulgar impuls , # which I refused ,

L: to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs
P: to watch Mr. Septimus more closely , Mrs

L: Caine too and Mr Gilberto who would ...
P: Caine to and Mr. Gilberts who would .

L: But all three were to the casual
P: But al thre were to the casual

L: observation I permitted myself unruffled ;
P: observation ( permited my self unrufled ;

L: Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very
P: Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very

L: thoughtful , but that was his habit . Indeed
P: thoughtful , but that was his habit . Inded

L: we were all invaded by a most tranquil
P: we were al invaded by a most trangul

L: mood . Even the Indian servants relaxed , knowing ,
P: mod . Even the Indian sevents relased , knowing ,

L: so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and
P: so Mr Gulberto told us , that the wild and

L: savage tribes never approached this region : at
P: savage tnkes never aproached this region : at

L: any rate they remained with us , perhaps
P: any rat hey remained with no , perhaps

L: for such protection as our presence , or Mrs
P: for such protection as our presence . Or Mrs

L: But after what Mrs Caine had said it was never
P: But after what tis come and said it was never

L: far from our minds that at any moment we were
P: ear Brom our minds rend at any mament we were

L: to receive a summons . I could see that Mr Septimus
P: to receive a sumons . I coned ae that re septemns

L: was impatient for it . This afternoon , then , we climbed
P: was impatient for it . This afternon , toan , we carnered

L: a promontory , a mass of clean rock crowned with
P: a prementry , a mars of cean roce crawred with

L: trees and bushes , that stood well out over the lake .
P: tres and enses , that shead we out over the eare -

L: NO ONE has ever satisfactorily explained how a
P: O ONE has was satisfactuvily axplaind how a

L: single-decker Welsh bus could have got
P: singl-chickr Wilsh bus could howr yot itsulf

L: itself into orbit . Shooting up over the pass a bit
P: into oubit . Shoting up over the pas a bit

L: too carefree , and becoming airborne ?
P: to car-fire , and becoming uibour ? .

L: Caught by a sudden gust of wind ? A
P: Cought bya suden gust of wind ? . I

L: combination of the two ? No one seems
P: combination of the two ? . No our sirms

L: to know . But the fact remains that get
P: to know . But the fart vimains that git

L: itself into orbit it did .
P: itsul ) in to us but 't a iat .

L: And a fine old fuss there was about it , too .
P: And a fime ofd fus ther was about it , tros

L: Here are the known facts . On 10th July ,
P: ther ane the kown fucts . On 1Oth Joly ,

L: the bus , the 2.20 from Dinas to Llangrwl ,
P: the bus , the 2.20 from Dinas to Clungul ,

L: left Dinas at two-thirty-five as usual .
P: Laft Dinus at two -thirty-for as usual

L: Aboard , apart from the crew , were Mrs. Megan
P: Abord , aport from the crow , wire Mrs. Magon

L: Thomas and her five-year-old son Cadwallader ;
P: Thomas ar d loi five-year-old son Caduladio ;

L: pretty little Morfydd Owen ; Mr. Stanley Hayball
P: puity litle Mr. Gyd Duin , Mr. Stunky Mupbal

L: and Miss Ethel Yates , hikers from
P: and WA . Mis Ethl Yatrs , hilevs from

L: Birmingham ; Price the Provisions ; and the
P: Dirminghum ; Price the Provisions ; and the

L: Yes , the bus set out from Dinas . So much
P: Yas , the bus set out from Dires . So much

L: is established . Ifor Huw Evans , Propr. ,
P: is established . Ifor tew Evans , Propr . ,

L: watched it go from the windows of the
P: wutchid it go from the windons of the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. Very interested ,
P: Dinus Motor Aumibes Co . Very intrusted ,

L: Ifor was . For there was his garage hand ,
P: Ifor was . For thse was his gangs hand ,

L: Dai Pugh , taking a tearful farewell of
P: Dai Rugh , taking a tearful furmal of

L: Morfydd Owen . Morfydd , who had until
P: Moufy od Dur . Mosfyold , who had until

L: recently been Ifor's typist , but was now
P: recently brom for's typist , but was now

L: returning to her home town as a
P: inturning to his home town us a

L: fully-fledged schoolteacher .
P: fuly -fledyad schol teacher ,

L: " But I 'm only going fifteen miles away , "
P: " But I 'm onty yoing fiftiom miles away , "

L: Morfydd was saying . " Not the end of
P: Morfyld mas saying . " Not the ind of

L: the world , is it ? " " For me it is , " Dai
P: the would , is it ? " " for me it is , " Dui

L: said wretchedly , wiping his hands on his
P: said writch idly , miping his hords on his

L: overalls preparatory to a last embrace . " You
P: orwals preparctory to a last imbrace . " Yo.

L: will not be remembering a mere garage
P: wil l not bo rmembering umovr curays

L: hand when you are lording it over
P: hand whom you or lording it our

L: the Mixed Infants of Llangrwl . "
P: the Mired Infunts of Clongun ! . "

L: " Silly boy , " said Morfydd . Though she
P: " Siliy boy , " said Mort , o . Though shi

L: could not help wondering whether , now she
P: could not help wondering whither , now she

L: had qualified as a schoolteacher , poor
P: had qualified as ascholteach , poy

L: little Dai was quite the man for her .
P: litle Dai was yuite the man for har .

L: A nice boy of course . But perhaps in the
P: Anice boy of cours . Bt pirhups in the

L: new world she was entering there might
P: non world she wus intiring there might

L: be boys equally nice , and with far more
P: tor boys eqealy nico , and with fur mone

L: to offer . The conductor rang his bell .
P: to ofer . The condictor wany his but .

L: " Good-bye , Dai , " said Morfydd , smiling from the bottom step .
P: " god-lyp , ciai , " said Holyold , smiding frm the lotorn step .

L: " Good-bye , Morfydd . " He sought to enfold her in his arms . But he was too late .
P: " yod-by , Nefald , " tho sught ter wnfild her in his arms , but he wes to lots ,

L: She was already up the bus steps , and the bus was away . And Morfydd Owen
P: Tho was deady up the his staps , and the hes was anay . And Hetold then

L: waving , unkissed , from the window . And Dai , on the pavement , knowing in his
P: wowig , uidined , from the winder . And this , on the parient , knowig in his

L: heart that Morfydd was leaving him as surely as she was leaving Dinas .
P: heart that tolgld was beaving thuin as sunly is she was baving tinis ,

L: So the bus set out for Llangrwl . But it never reached there ! Somewhere ,
P: St the hus sot out for fhungrah . But it nover raded thot ' Somerwhex ,

L: on those fifteen miles of mountain roads , it disappeared from the earthly
P: on thoefiften miles of mantain rads , it disapened from the eathly

L: scene . The first intimation that all was not well came when a
P: more . She first inturmation that al was not sel wons when a

L: Mr. Isaiah Roberts , landlord of The Traveller's Joy , rang up the
P: Mr. Snich Aolerts , handlod of She Sraseler's fay , seng up the

L: Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. to ask what had happened to their
P: sunis Heter Ormils lo . Ir ash shat hod hapened te their

L: " Left here all right , " said Ifor . " Two-thirty-five , on the dot . " " It 's
P: eft fere al right , ' said for . ' Sur . thily-fire , an tho dt , " ft ' ,

L: supposed to leave at two-twenty . " " Who says so ? " " Your timetable . "
P: suposed to ber at two-tresty . " Wtho mays s ? " your turistatle , "

L: " Don't want to take too much notice of those old timetables , " Ifor said ,
P: ' som't wot to teder to much notice of thos old teristables , " forsid ,

L: reasonably . " Start running punctual and where are you ? People get
P: resonably . ' Stat suning gunetual and shot ar you ? Deuple get

L: left behind , isn't it ? Very exasperating for one and all . "
P: seft bfing btheid , int it ! Boy exesperatery for v wid al . "

L: " And what are you going to do about it ? " Tendentious , Mr. Roberts sounded .
P: ' And shot ase you ganyg to to dout it I ' Sundertiain , Mr. Alets saunded ,

L: " What do you want me to do ? Send out a sheriff's posse , is it ? " No sense
P: " What to yon wext no to do ! Boid at a Sherlf 's pose , wit ! ' to sus

L: of humour , that Isaiah . He banged down the receiver . Very uncivil . Dropped
P: o Aurmon , that traich . Ho langed down the reawir , bey unerid , shapged

L: the mask , now , Ifor did . " Dai Pugh , " he bellowed . " Leap on your bicycle
P: to mark , now , for kid . ' Ovais high . He biloed , " Seap on your heigh

L: and scour the countryside between here and The Traveller's Joy .
P: and reour the countryido betwewn Box and the Sravele's fay ,

L: The two-twenty to Llangrwl has failed to
P: The twotwenty to layrul has failed to

L: complete her mission . " Paled , did Dai . For the
P: Complete her mision . " Paled , did Dair . For the

L: two-twenty carried , for him , a cargo more
P: two-twent'y cunried , for him , a congo more

L: precious than jewels . Though Mofydd Owen
P: Precious than jevels . Though Mofyold Oven

L: was , as he feared , departed out of his life ,
P: was , as he feared , depanted out of his life ,

L: he still loved her dearly . Already , even
P: he stil loved hes dearly . Thready , even

L: as with trembling fingers he fastened his
P: as with trembling fingers he fortuned his

L: trouser clips , he was seeing her lying in
P: trouser clips , he was seing her lying in

L: some dreadful ravine , or beset by
P: some dreadful sowine , or beset by

L: robbers , or being whisked off to Emergency
P: robers , or being whished of to Energency

L: But even his imagination , luckily for him ,
P: But even his imagination , luckily for him ,

L: did not visualise the awful truth - that
P: did not visualise the auful truth - that

L: Morfyyd Owen was already qualifying for
P: Mortryd Oven was already qulifring for

L: the title of " First Woman to Enter Space . "
P: the title of " First Woman to Enter Spack . "

L: " Where are we going , Mam ? " inquired little
P: " Where are we going , Mauil " inquired litle

L: Cadwallader when his child mind grasped
P: Ladwalader when his child mind grasped

L: the fact that the green earth was falling
P: the fact that the gren earth was failing

L: away at a rate of knots .
P: away at a rate of knots .

L: Where indeed ? Megan Thomas spoke sharply
P: Where inded ? Megan Thouas spoke sharply

L: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .
P: to the conductor , demanding an explanation .

L: But nonplussed , the conductor was . A
P: But wan plused , the conductor ves . It

L: good man , mind ; knew his job . But out of
P: god man , mind ; knew his jobs . But out of

L: depth in this particular instance . Fingered
P: depth in this particular instance . Fingered

L: his ticket-punch nervously . Peered out of
P: his ticket-punch trervously . Peared out of

L: the window . Went and consulted the driver .
P: the window . Went and consulted the driver .

L: " Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwallader .
P: " Where are we going ? ' he echoed Cadwalader .

L: " Damned if I know , boy , " said the driver .
P: Danined if I lanow , boy , " said the driver .

L: " But something very untoward has
P: " But somothing very untoward has

L: happened , if you ask me . "
P: baszened , if you ask me . .

L: Immersed in the Dinas Advertiser , was the
P: Funersed in the Duas Rcdertiser , was the

L: Rev. Edwards . Now he put down his paper ,
P: Mer. Edwards . Na he put down his paper ,

L: folded it , and glanced idly out of the
P: tolded it , and glanced idly out of the

L: window . Looked again , eyes starting from
P: window . Locked again , eyes starting from

L: his head . " God bless my immortal soul , "
P: his head . " God bles my imortal sal , "

L: he cried . " Never mind your immortal
P: he cried . " Never mind your imortal

L: soul , " said Megan Thomas tartly .
P: sod , " said Mogan Thomas tartly .

L: " Here we are traversing the heavens at the
P: " Here we are travesing the leavens at the

L: very moment when we should be
P: very moment when we should be

L: running into Llangrwl bus station .
P: runing into Clongrul bous statcon .

L: And no one doing the first thing about
P: And no ome doing the first thing about

L: it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you
P: it . ' Stung , the conductor wos . " What you

L: expect me to do ? " he inquired , bitter .
P: expect me to do ! " ho inquined , biter .

L: " Radio Flying Control at London Airport ,
P: " Radis Plying Contrd at London Dixport ,

L: is it ? " " Mutual recriminations will get
P: is it ? " " Mutual recriminations wil get

L: us nowhere , " boomed the Rev. Edwards .
P: us howhere , " beomed the Row. Edwards .

L: " It 's all very well , " commented
P: " It's al very wel , " comented

L: Mr. Hayball from the back seat .
P: Mr. Maybul from the back seat .

L: " But Eth and me wanted to be
P: " But Eth and me wanted to be

L: at the Youth Hostel before dark . "
P: at the Youth Hestel befere dark . "

L: Morfydd Owen was silent . But she
P: Morkyld Owen was silent . But she

L: looked down at the fast-disappearing
P: lokedown at the fart-disapearing

L: earth , and it seemed to her that she
P: earth , and it nemed to her that whe

L: would never see her Dai again . And
P: would never ne her Pai again . And

L: though half an hour ago she had
P: though half anhour ago she had

L: regarded this possibility with
P: regarded this posibility with

L: fortitude , it now filled her with
P: jotitude , it now filed her with

L: dismay . Quietly she began to
P: dismay . Duietly the began to

L: Dai , meanwhile , was pedalling
P: Dai , meanwhile , was pedaling

L: furiously on the road . Not a sign of
P: furiously on the road . Not a rign of

L: the bus . He passed The Traveller's
P: the bus . He pared The Traveler is

L: Joy . At last he caught up Mr. Roberts ,
P: Joy . At last he cought up Mr. Roberts ,

L: walking very dogged towards Llangrwl .
P: waiking very doged towards Clangrel .

L: " Afternoon , Mr. Roberts , " he called , polite ,
P: " Afternon , Mr. Roberls , " he caled , polite ,

L: as he shot past . His spirits were rising .
P: as he shot part . His sirits were rising .

L: He had seen no sign of an accident .
P: He had sen no sign of an acident .

L: Therefore Mr. Roberts must have been mistaken .
P: Therefore Mr. Roberts must have benmintateon .

L: He would find the bus safe and sound in
P: Hewould find the bus nafe and round in

L: Llangrwl , and his dear Morfydd quietly
P: Mlangrel , and his cear torfyd quietly

L: But disappointment awaited him . A
P: But disapointment avaited him . A

L: restive queue of people in the bus station ,
P: vestive quene of people in the bus station ,

L: waiting to be transported to Dinas . And
P: waiting to be transported to Rinas . And

L: when he went to Morfydd's house , all
P: when bevent to Mortyold's house , al

L: he found was Morfydd's mam , working
P: he found was tortydis man , working

L: herself up proper ... Getting dark , now .
P: herself up proper . . Beting cark , now .

L: The conductor switched on the lights .
P: The conductor witched on the lights .

L: The beleaguered passengers peered out of
P: The beleaquired panengers pered out of

L: the windows . Little to be seen , only a
P: the windous , Ritle to be sen , only a

L: few lone stars , and the distant earth
P: jew Sene shars , and the dintant earth

L: brooding in her shroud of mist .
P: broding in her shroed of mist .

L: Megan Thomas sat tight-lipped , nursing
P: Megor Thomas not fight-liped , muning

L: the sleeping Cadwallader . Driver and
P: the sleping Ladwalader . Driver and

L: conductor peered ahead into nothingness .
P: condector peared alvad into mothingners .

L: On the back seat Stan Hayball embraced
P: In the back reat than Raybalembraced

L: his Eth . Morfydd thought of Dai . The
P: his th. Horyold thought of lai . The

L: Rev. Edwards , standing at the front ,
P: Mer . Edwards , standing at the front ,

L: looked at his forlorn flock . " What
P: loched at his forlorn flock . " What

L: about a verse or two of Cwm Rhondda ? "
P: about a verse or lwo of Lurn Rhonda ? "

L: he suggested hopefully .
P: she nugented hopefuly .

L: They looked at him , sullen . His heart
P: They locked athim , sulen . His heart

L: sank . If the Welsh found the situation
P: sanh . If the Welch found the situation

L: too desperate for singing , then the
P: to demparate for singing , then the

L: situation , he realised , must be desperate
P: nituation , he realined , ment be desperate

L: indeed . But suddenly they were roused
P: inded . But nudenly they were roused

L: from their lethargy . Something was
P: hose belebeagy , larelag ecas

L: approaching , faster , faster , a tearing
P: aproaching , farter , farter , a tearing

L: hurrying blur that was past and gone
P: hurying ther that was part and gome

L: in a moment , followed by a great
P: ina moment , folowed by a great

L: rush of sound . They waved frantically .
P: ruch of round . They waved franlicaly .

L: But the jet aircraft was already miles away ,
P: But the jet aircruft was already miles away ,

L: swinging down to the darkening earth . " It
P: swinging down to the doubening earth . ' It

L: passed me at fifty thousand feet , sir . It was
P: pused me at fity thousand fet , sir . It was

L: climbing steadily . " Group Captain Llewelyn Jones , Officer
P: climbing steadity . " Group Captain Llewelygn Joner , oficer

L: Commanding R.A.F. Station , Dinas , looked keenly at the
P: Comanding R. M.P. Station , Dine , loked Realy at the

L: Flying Officer who had burst so unceremoniously into his
P: Flying oficr who had bast so undemeriously into his

L: office . " And what did it look like , Broughtons ? Some
P: ofice . " And what did it lok like , broughtors ! . Some

L: Flying Officer Broughtons shuffled his feet .
P: Flying Oficer Broughtou shufled his fet

L: " Well , actually , sir , it looked like - like a bus .
P: " Wel , actualy , sir , it loked like - like a bus .

L: A single-decker , " he elaborated . Daggers , the
P: It simgle-dedker . " he elaborated . Dagers , the

L: Group Captain looked . " Broughtons , " he said silkily .
P: Crovp Captain loked . " Broughtows , " he said sildily .

L: " Didn't they teach you at Cranwell that buses are
P: ' Didn't they teach you at Cronwel that buses ore

L: earth-bound creatures ? Aeroplanes fly , Broughtons .
P: earth-bound creatures ! . Ieroplans fly , broughtous

L: Buses crawl . " Very pale , Broughtons was . But
P: Buses crawd . " Vay pale , broughtous was . But

L: determined . " It was a bus , sir .
P: datermined It was a bus , si

L: They 'd got the lights on . There were people inside .
P: thegid got the lights on . There wre people inside

L: Waving . " Like gimlets , the Station Commander's eyes .
P: Waving . " like ginlts , the Station Comande's eges .

L: " Did you see the indicator board ? " " Yes , sir . " " And
P: ' Dd you se the indicato board ? " Yes , six . " " And

L: what did it say ? Mystery Tour ? " Oh , very caustic , that
P: What did it say ! Mystery Tor ! ' ch , vry coustic , that

L: Group Captain . But Broughtons stood his ground . " No ,
P: Grox Captain . But broughtous stod his ground . " No ,

L: sir . It said Llangrwl . " Llewelyn Jones sat
P: sir . It simply said Clarginl . " Llewelgh Jones sut

L: back in his chair . " I see . So you met a bus at
P: back inhis chain . " Ise . So you met a bus at

L: All lit up . Full of people waving as you went past . "
P: Al lit up . Ful of pople woving as you went past . '

L: Suddenly he crouched forward . " Broughtons , if I thought
P: Sudendy he crouched found . " Broughtons , if I thought

L: there were anything in Queen's Regulations to cover this ,
P: there were anything in Cuaris agalations to cor this ,

L: I 'd have you court-martialled . But I know there
P: I 'd have you cont-mantialed . But I Bnow the

L: isn't , " he ended sadly . " I tried to read the
P: isuit , " he ended sadly . ' I trid to read the

L: registration number , sir . But it was getting dark . "
P: registration nember , six : but if was gething dork . "

L: He waited . But his commanding officer appeared to
P: Hhe waited . But his comanding ofer apeared to

L: " Then we are saved , " cried the Rev. Edwards .
P: " Than we are saved , " cried the Rer. ischwards .

L: Shyly , Morfydd Owen produced a block of
P: Sugly , Mortyold Owen produced a blot of

L: He saluted , and left the presence , very crestfallen ...
P: Hhe salated , and left the presence , very crestalen .

L: Time passed . The bus climbed , and went quietly
P: Time pased . The bus climbed , and went quietly

L: into orbit . Time passed . The Rev. Edwards' pulpit
P: into orbit . Time parsed . The Rev. Edwards' pupit

L: remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai
P: remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai

L: Pugh . How could they be otherwise , when his
P: Pugh . How could they be otherwise , when his

L: beloved was circling the Poles at three-and-a-
P: beloved was circking the Poles at thre-and-a-

L: quarter-hour intervals , regular as clockwork ?
P: quarter-hour intervals , regular as clockwork ?

L: Time passed . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan
P: Time pased . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan

L: Thomas , isn't it , " as though they didn't really think
P: Thomas , isn't it , " as though they didn't realy think

L: it was a pity at all ; as , indeed , they didn't .
P: it was a pity at al ; as , inded , they didn't .

L: LOCAL BUS DISAPPEARS announced the
P: NO LOCAL BUS DISADEARS anounced the

L: Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored
P: Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers iqnored

L: the whole affair . Ifor Evans reported his loss
P: the whole afair . Ifor Evans roported his los

L: to the police . But they only tut-tutted . " Lost
P: to the police . But they only tutated . " Lost

L: a bus , is it . Very careless . " That was their
P: a bas , is it . Very careles . " That was their

L: attitude . Now if there 'd been a good old accident ,
P: atitud . Now if there 'd ben a god old acident ,

L: they could have measured up the road and
P: they could have measured up the road and

L: But losing a bus ! People were always losing
P: But losing a bus ! People were always Lasing

L: things . You 'd be surprised , they said . So it
P: things . You'd be sarprised , they said . So it

L: seemed , for a time , that the whole affair would
P: semed , for a time , that the whole afair would

L: be written off as one of those unexplained
P: be writen of as one of those unexplained

L: mysteries , like the Marie Celeste . Then things
P: mysteries , like the Marie keleste . Then things

L: began to happen ... But what about the voyagers ?
P: began to hapen . . But what about the royagers .

L: Well , the Rev. Edwards had taken command . " Our
P: Wel , the Rer. Edwards had taken comand . " Our

L: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to
P: position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to

L: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now
P: that of a castaway on a desert island . Now

L: what does such a person do ? He signals
P: what does such a person do ! . He signals

L: his position by lighting bonfires or hoisting a
P: his position by lighting bonfires or hoisking a

L: flag on a palm tree . And he tries to ensure
P: Plan on a palmn tre . And he fries to ensure

L: " Can't go lighting bonfires on this bus , "
P: " C an't go lighting bonfives on this bus , "

L: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the
P: the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the

L: Company's Regulations . " " Of course not , " agreed
P: Company's Rogulations . " Of course not , " agred

L: the minister . " No , we have another way of signalling
P: the minister . " No , we have another may of signaling

L: our position . The driver must sound his horn
P: our position . The driver must sound his hom

L: continuously . " Gave him a look , the driver did .
P: continously . " Gave him a lok , the driver did .

L: " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely .
P: " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely .

L: " Do as I say , driver . " Very stern , the reverend
P: " Do or I way , driver . " very stern , the revered

L: gentleman was . So the driver peep-peeped as
P: gentleman was . So the driver pep-peped ap

L: through empty space . " Thank you , " the Rev.
P: through emply space . " Thank you , " the Rev.

L: Edwards said courteously . " Secondly , we must
P: Edwards said courtously . " Scondly , we must

L: pool and ration our supplies of food , if any . "
P: pol and ration our suplies of fod , if any . "

L: He looked at Price the Provisions , who was nursing
P: He losted at Price the Provisions , who was muning

L: " Now , who has any food ? " he asked hopefully .
P: " Now , who has any fod ? " he asked hopefuly .

L: Stared back did Price the Provisions , unwinking .
P: Stared back did Price the Pronision) unusiling .

L: " Mr. Price , I think you may be able to help us here , "
P: " Mr. Pice , I think you may be able to help us lxe ;

L: said the Rev. Edwards . Price shook his head .
P: said the Mer. Edwards . Price shok hir head .

L: " Intended for Plas Newydd , this lot is . Paid for ,
P: " Intended for Plas Nnoyold , thir lot is . Paid for ,

L: too . " He folded his arms protectively over the basket .
P: to . " He folded his ams protectively over the bas fet .

L: Mutinous dog , thought the Rev. Edwards , who hadn't
P: M-rinous day , thought the Mer . Edwards , who hadn't

L: enjoyed himself so much since reading Treasure
P: enjoyed himself no much since reading Treasme

L: Island . " What have you got in that basket , Price ? "
P: 's land . " What have you got in that basket , Price ! "

L: he roared . Quelled , Mr. Price pulled out a grocery
P: the roared . Cheled , Mr. Price puled out a grovery

L: list , pushed his glasses up on his nose , and
P: list , pushed his glased up on his more , and

L: began to read . " Six loaves , four pounds butter ,
P: beyan to read . ' Sir loases , four pounds buthr ,

L: two pounds marge , one tin pineapple , one York ham . "
P: two frounds marge , one him pineaple , one tork han . "

L: Bertram's face was grim . " You think it was the Snort ,
P: Bestran's fnce was grim . " Yon think it was the Smort ,

L: don't you ? " John gave a short laugh . " I did , " he
P: don't you ? ' John gave a short langh . ' I olid , " he

L: said ; " but I 'd better stop thinking that now .
P: said ; ' but I 'd beter stop thinking that now .

L: Pericles is fitted with an identically similar one . "
P: Perices is fiting with an identicaly similar ow . "

L: " So there you are , my dear . " Peggy 's eyes filled
P: " to there you are , my cear . " Pegy's eyes filed

L: with tears . " It 's so unfair , " she said .
P: with tears . " It's sounfair , ' she said .

L: " That little beast Robbie Munyard spent six
P: " That litle beast Roblie them yard spent sir

L: months ashore while Pericles was refitting in the
P: months ashore while Pericls was refiting in the

L: dockyard and now that she 's ready for sea he goes
P: clockyard and now that she's ready for nea he yoep

L: sick . Just because he 's an Honourable he can do
P: sick . Just because ho's an Honourable ho can do

L: what he likes . Anyway , why pick on you to succeed
P: what he liter . Anyway , why pick on you to suced

L: him ? " John didn't answer . There was no point
P: fim ! " Johe didn't answer . There was no print

L: in sharing his discomfort with Peggy .
P: in sharing his discomfort with Pegy .

L: Though your wings and your scars are new ,
P: Though your mings and your scars are new ,

L: you may join us . ' ' I am Lily-yo . We three
P: you may join us . " " I am hily-yo . We thre

L: are humans . You are only flymen . We will
P: are humans . You are only flymen . We wil

L: not join you . ' The Captives grunted in boredom .
P: not join your " The Captives grunted in boredom .

L: The Chief Captive spoke again . ' Always this
P: The Chief captive spoke again . ' Always this

L: talk from you of the Heavy World ! You have
P: talk from you of the Heavy World ! You have

L: joined us . You are flymen , we are human . You
P: joined us Yon are flymen , we are human . You

L: I saw several men running down towards
P: I saw several men runing down towards

L: the shack . They were all armed with rifles .
P: the shak . They were al armed with riftes

L: As the nearest of them came round the
P: As the neorest of them came round the

L: shack , his rifle at the ready , I saw it was Nick
P: shat , his rite at the ready , I saw it was Wick

L: Dowd , still wearing his blue check shirt . He
P: Boud , stil wearing his blue check shirt . He

L: came up close , eyeing us suspiciously . " We 've
P: came up close , eveing us suspiciously . " We 've

L: come 2a-calling , " I said . " Can't see no reason
P: come Ra-caling , " I said . " Can't se no reason

L: for calling , " he said . " Still long as you 're here
P: for caling , " he said . " Stil long as youire here

L: you may as well stay a while .
P: you may as wel stay a while .

L: 'Light an' come on in . " We dismounted and
P: light an come on in . " We dismounted and

L: one of the miners who 'd come along with
P: one of the miners whod come along with

L: Nick Dowd took our horses off to water .
P: Wick boud tok our horses of the water .

L: We followed Nick Dowd into the shack .
P: We folowed Wick boud into the shack .

L: They 'd rigged up a stove of sorts and on it
P: The ; d niged up a store of sorts and on it

L: a huge blackened coffee-pot steamed . Other
P: a huge blackened cofe-pot steamed . Other

L: miners followed in at our heels . Nick Dowd
P: miners folowed in at our hels . Wick Boud

L: found us a couple of boxes to sit on .
P: found us a couple of boses to sit on .

L: A small man in bib overalls and a battered
P: A smal man in bib overals and a batered

L: Derby hat fussed around the stove . " 2Ain't
P: Derby hat fused around the stove . " 2 Ain't

L: exactly the Ritz Hotel but we 've got our little
P: exactly the Rite Hotel but weive got our litle

L: comforts , " said Dowd . He introduced the men
P: comforts , " said b oud . He introduced the men

L: who 'd come in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick
P: who 'd come in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick

L: Golightly , Swede and the Sodbuster . This last was
P: Golightly , suede and Sodbuster . This last was

L: the little hombre in big overalls . Very soon he
P: the litle homore in big overals . Very son he

L: had tin mugs filled with hot black coffee
P: had tim mugs filed with hot black cofe

L: sweetened with molasses for all and for us
P: swectened with molases for al and for us

L: there were two plates of beans .
P: there were two plates of beans

L: " They gives you the wind , " said the Sodbuster
P: " They gives you the wind ; " said the Sodbonster

L: handing them to us , " but it 's all we got
P: handing them to us , ' but it 's al we got

L: as of now , apart from a few sacks of gold
P: as of now , apart from a few sacks of gold

L: dust . " He winked at his partners . They all
P: dust . " He winked at his partners . They al

L: watched us as we ate the beans . Then when
P: watched us as we ate the beans . Then when

L: we 'd finished and I 'd rolled a cigarette
P: we ' a finished and I 'd roled a cigarete

L: the man called Shorty said , " You were saying when
P: the man caled shorty said , " You were saying when

L: you came in that 2somep'n happened last
P: you came in that 2somepin hapened last

L: " Yes , " I said . " Something happened all right .
P: " Yes , " I said . ' Something hapened al night .

L: After you 'd left the meeting , mister " - I
P: After you'd left the meting , mister " - I

L: looked across at Nick Dowd - " someone cut
P: loked acros at Wick Boud -" someone cut

L: down William Appleton outside the Palace
P: down Wiliam Apleton outside the Palace

L: with a shotgun . " I paused and watched my
P: with a shotgun . ' I pansed and watched my

L: words affect them in their different ways .
P: words afect them in their diferent wars .

L: " That 's sure bad news , " said Dowd , sombrely .
P: " That's sure bad news , " said Doud , sombrely .

L: " It 2jest about leaves everything wide open
P: " It Rjest about leaves everything wide open

L: for Mr. Pell and his bunch , " observed
P: for Mr. Pel and his bunch , " observed

L: The rest of the men there said nothing but
P: The rest of the men there said nothing but

L: you could see they were hard hit . They were
P: you could se they were hard it . They were

L: simple men who knew a lot maybe about
P: simple men who knew a lot majbe about

L: digging for gold but were babes in arms
P: diging for gold but were babes in arms

L: when it came to dealing with owlhooters and
P: when it came to dealing with outhoters and

L: desperadoes like Pell and Fenton and the
P: desperadoes like Pel and Tenton and the

L: rest . " I guess we 'd better hold onto the gold
P: rest . ' I ques we 'd beter hold onto the gold

L: right 2hyar , Nick , " said the Sodbuster .
P: right 2hyar , Wick , " said the sodbuster .

L: " Yeah , " said Dowd dubiously . " 2Mebbe we 'd
P: " Yeah , " said Doud dubiously . " ( Mebe we 'd

L: better . " Surprisingly Dan Maffrey came in at
P: beter . ' Surprisingly Dan Mafrey came in at

L: that point . " If you do , " he said , " you 'll be
P: that point . ' If you do , " he said , " you'l be

L: sure asking for trouble . They 'll be on your
P: sure asking for trouble . They 'l be on your

L: necks before you can say ' knife ' . It wouldn't
P: necks before you can say " knife ' . It wouldn't

L: be the first time they 've held up a diggings
P: be the first time the yive held up a digings

L: at gun point either . They 've done it before
P: at gun point either . They 're done it before

L: and got away with it . "
P: and got away with it . '

L: " You 're 2durned tootin' , mister , " said the man
P: " You're Edurned totin ' , mister , " said the man

L: called Roper Smith . " We 've got five rifles among
P: caled Roper Smith . " We 've got five rifles among

L: us and a few six-shooters . But most of us
P: us and a few six-shoters . But most of us

L: 2ain't 2eddicated in shootin' . It 'd be a
P: I ain't edicated in shotin's If 'd be a

L: 2massacree , 2yessir . " " If you 'll take a chance
P: emasacre , evesir . " " If voul take a chance

L: on getting your gold to the bank , then we 'll
P: on geting vour gold to the bank , then weil

L: abide by what we said at the meeting , "
P: abide by what we said at the meting , "

L: said Dan . " We 'll watch the stage out of reach . "
P: said Dan . " Weil watch the stage out of reach . '

L: I couldn't quite see how all this fitted in
P: I couldn't quite se now al this fited in

L: with Dan Maffrey's aim to avenge himself
P: with Dan Maftrey's aim to avenge himself

L: on the Fenton bunch but still it was a
P: on the Tenton bunch but stil it was a

L: handsome offer so I chimed in too . " That
P: handsome ofer so I chimed in to . That

L: goes for me , gentlemen , " I said . " If they do try
P: ges for me , gentlemen ; I said . ' If they do try

L: and hold up the stage , it 'll be a couple or
P: and hold up the stage , it il be a couple or

L: three of them , no more . I reckon we can deal
P: thre of them , no more . I recteon we can deal

L: ' But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - '
P: ' But we - " " Stop your stupid talk , wouan ! " " We are - "

L: ' Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Appa Bondi said .
P: 'e sitent , woman , and listen , ' Eand Apa Eondi said .

L: ' We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive . ' Some
P: " We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captire . ' Sone

L: things we will tell you . All who make the journey from
P: things we wil tel you . Al who make the journey from

L: the Heavy World become changed . Some die . Most live
P: the Heavy world become changed . Sonce die . Most live

L: and grow wings . Between the worlds are many strong
P: and grow wings . Betwen the worlds are many strong

L: rays , not seen or felt , which change our bodies .
P: rays , not sen or felt , which change our bodies

L: When you come here , when you come to the True
P: When you come here , when you corce to the True

L: World , you become a true human . The grub of the
P: world , you becone a true human . The gub of the

L: tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So humans
P: tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So hureans

L: change . ' ' I cannot know what he says , ' Haris said
P: change . ' I I canot know what he says , ' Maris said

L: stubbornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and
P: stubornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and

L: ' To this True World , as you call it , we come to die , '
P: To this True World , as you cal it , we come to dis , "

L: Lily-yo said , doubtingly . The Captive with the
P: Lily - a said , doubtingly . The Captive with the

L: fleshless jaw said , ' The grub of the tigerfly thinks
P: fleshles jew said , ' The gresb of the tigerfly thinks

L: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' ' You are still
P: it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . " " You are stil

L: young , ' said the Chief Captive . ' You begin newly here .
P: yoing , ' said the Chief Captive . " You begin newly here .

L: Where are your souls ? ' Lily-yo and Flor looked at
P: Where are your souls : " Lily-po and Flor loked at

L: each other . In their flight from the 4wiltmilt they had
P: each other . In their flight from the Guituilt they had

L: heedlessly thrown down their souls .
P: hedlesly thrown down their souls .

L: Haris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !
P: Maris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !

L: ' You see . You needed them no more . You are still
P: " You se . Hon neded then no more . You are stil

L: young . You may be able to have babies . Some of those
P: young . Yon may be abdle to have babies . Some of those

L: babies may be born with wings . ' The Captive with
P: babies may be bown with wings . ' The Captive with

L: the boneless arms added , ' Some may be born wrong ,
P: the boneles arns aded , ' Some may be born wrong ,

L: as we are . Some may be born right . '
P: as we are . Some may be bown night . '

L: ' You are too foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are
P: ' You are to foul to live ! " Maris growled . ' Why are

L: you not killed ? ' ' Because we know all things , ' the
P: you not kiled . " " Be cause we know al things , ' the

L: Chief Captive said . Suddenly his second head roused
P: chief Captive said . Sudenly his second head roused

L: itself and declared , ' To be a good shape is not all
P: itself and beclared , ' To be a god shape is not al

L: in life . To know is also good . Because we cannot move
P: in life . To know is also god . Because we canot move

L: well we can - think . This tribe of the True World
P: wel we can - think . This trike of the True would

L: is good and knows these things .
P: is god and knows these things .

L: So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo
P: So it lets us rule it . " Flor and Lily-yo

L: muttered together . ' Do you say that you poor
P: nutered together . " D0 you say that you por

L: Captives rule the True World ? ' Lily-yo asked
P: Captives rule the True world ? ' Lily-yo asked

L: at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? '
P: at last . " We do . " " Then why are you captives ? "

L: The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs connected ,
P: The flyuan with ear lobes and thumbs conected ,

L: making his perpetual little gesture of protest ,
P: making his perpetual litle gesture of protest ,

L: ' To rule is to serve , woman . Those who bear power
P: To rule is to serve , woran . Those who bear pawer

L: are slaves to it . Only an outcast is free . Because
P: are slaves to it . Only an outcast is fre . Decause

L: we are Captives , we have the time to talk and
P: we are Captives , we have the time to talk and

L: think and plan and know . Those who know
P: think and plan and know . Those who know

L: command the knives of others . ' ' No hurt will
P: comand the trives of others . ' No hurt wil

L: come to you , Lily-yo , ' Band Appa Bondi added .
P: come to you , lily-yo , ' Band Apa Bondi aded .

L: ' You will live among us and enjoy your life free
P: " You wil live among us and enjoy your life fre

L: ' No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths .
P: 'No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths .

L: ' Before she can enjoy , Lily-yo and her companion
P: "before she can enjoy , lily-yo and her coxpanion

L: Flor - this other man creature is plainly useless -
P: For - this other man creature is plainly useles -

L: must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ? ' Bondi
P: must help our great plan . " ' The invasion ? ' Bondi

L: asked . ' What else ? Flor and Lily-yo , you arrive
P: asked . ' What else , Flor and Lily-yo , you arive

L: here at a good time . Memories of the Heavy World
P: here at god time . Hemories of the Meavy World

L: and its savage life are still fresh in you .
P: and its savage life are stil fresh in you .

L: We need such memories . So we ask you to go
P: We ned such menories . So we ask you to go

L: back there on a great plan we have . ' ' Go back ? '
P: back there on a great plan we have . " " 20 back? "

L: gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to attack the Heavy
P: gasped For . " Yes . We plan to atack the Heavy

L: World . You must help to lead our force . ' The long
P: world . You must help to lead our force . ' The long

L: afternoon of eternity wore on , that long golden road
P: afternon of eterity wore on , that long golden road

L: of an afternoon that would somewhere lead to
P: of an afternon that would sonewhere lead to

L: Motion there was , but motion without event - except
P: neation there was , but notion without event - except

L: for those negligible events that seemed so large to
P: for those negligible event that sened so large to

L: the creatures participating in them . For Lily-yo , Flor
P: the creatures participating in them . For Lily-po , Flor

L: and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was
P: and Maris there were many events . Chief of these was

L: that they learned to fly properly . The pains associated
P: that they learned to fly property . The pains asociated

L: with their wings soon died away as the wonderful
P: with their wings son died away as the wonderful

L: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the
P: new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the

L: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly
P: light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly

L: flopping movements of flymen on the Heavy World
P: floping movement of Plymen on the Meavy world

L: Alastair was a bachelor . All his life he had
P: Masloir was a bochetor . An his life he had

L: been inclined to regard women as something
P: ben wiclined to regord romen as something

L: which must necessarily be subordinated to his
P: which must necesarily be suborainated to his

L: career . Now he realised that he was entrusting not only
P: rarer . Now he reatised that he was entrusting not only

L: his own life , but Geoffrey's as well , to a strange girl
P: his own wife , but Ocofrey 's as wel , to a stange givl

L: whom he had never met and on whom after no more
P: whom he had never met and on whom after nomore

L: than a couple of telephone calls he was
P: than a couple of ephone cals he was

L: prepared to place complete reliance .
P: prepored to place compule reliance

L: " Good luck , Air Marshal , " she said gently . " I 'll
P: God luck , Sir Marsual , " she said gently . ' I'l

L: be waiting for you at the Hotel Roma at six this
P: N be waiting for you at the Hotel Rome at Six this .

L: evening - and I shall look forward to meeting you
P: evening - and I sual lok forard to multing you

L: both at midnight . " They might have been
P: both at minight . They might have ben

L: arranging a supper party . Then she rang off .
P: arauging a super pary . Then sue rong of .

L: Alastair admitted that never in a not altogether
P: Masteir admited that never in a not altogethor

L: uneventful life had he come across a girl who
P: uneventful life had he come acros a gire wno

L: sounded so charming and appeared to be so
P: sounded so charming and apeared to be so

L: It was a novel experience . Alastair was
P: It was a novel experience . Mastair was

L: quite unable to explain why he should feel
P: quite unable to explain why he should fel

L: so much confidence in her . Once again
P: to muach confidence in ther . Once again

L: she checked back her instructions . It was
P: she checked back her instrutions . It was

L: obvious that she did not fail to appreciate the
P: obvious that she did not fail to apreciate the

L: faith which he was placing in her and
P: fuith which he war plaing in her and

L: was prepared to accept the responsibility .
P: was prepared to acept the responsiblity .

L: For some reason the orderlies had forgotten
P: For some reason the orderlies had forgeten

L: to switch on the lights ; there was no colour -
P: for witch on the highter , there wre no calour-

L: physical features were distinguishable solely by
P: phopical features mere distinguishable soly by

L: gradations of silvery greyness . Even the snow-
P: pradations of silvery oprenpres . Wen the oner-

L: capped summit of Mont Blanc , seven miles
P: cuped sumit of Mont Planc , seven miles

L: below , was not recognisable among the host
P: below , wo not recepioable among the lost

L: of lower peaks . The screen of the air-to-air
P: of lover peake . The screw of the ir-to-air

L: radar glowed . Occasionally minute spots
P: rader glowed . Ecsinaly minute apote

L: flickered across its surface , but there was
P: flichered acros its ouface , but there whe

L: In the exceptional clarity he was even able to
P: In the exceptional charity he was even abe to

L: make a direct comparison between the radar
P: make a direct camparison betwen the radar

L: image and the ground itself . Ahead lay the
P: limage and the ground itself . thead hay the

L: Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the
P: Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the

L: left , Milan . The directional angle of the
P: Left , Mitan . The directional anghe of the

L: scanner could be adjusted to cover any
P: scaner could be adjusted to cover any

L: particular area within its range . Geoffrey
P: particular area within its range , heofrey

L: turned the scale slowly to cover the
P: turned the scale stowly # to cover the

L: ground immediately ahead .
P: ground imediately shead .

L: Now , as Alastair reduced the thrust , the
P: Now , as Rlastier reduced the thrnst , the

L: pitch changed as the nose of the aircraft
P: pitch danged as the nose of the aircraf

L: dipped slightly . The needle of the speed
P: hiped slightly . The nedle of the oped

L: recorder swung gently through 8.0 , 7.0 , 6.0
P: recorder aring gently through 8. 1 , 7.0 , 6. 6

L: before coming to rest at 5.0 . " We 're a bit
P: before coming to rest at 5.0 , " Wei're " til

L: ahead of time , " said Alastair . " We 'll run
P: whend of time ' , aid Masthir . " He 'l sum

L: in on minimum engine power . " Geoffrey
P: in on minimum engine power , " fefrey

L: smiled . Alastair talked of running in when
P: oriled . Mastin talked of rurning in when

L: they were still more than four hundred
P: they were stil more than four lundred

L: miles from their destination .
P: miles from their destination .

L: He was able to pick out towns , unrecognisable to the
P: He was able to pick out towns , unrecognirable to the

L: naked eye , obscured by the ground haze which even
P: naked eye , obrcured by the groarid hose which even

L: on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced
P: on the clearest night limited argular vision . He glanced

L: at the speed recorder . It seemed almost incredible that
P: at the sped recorder . It semed almost incridible that

L: the tiny white figure of 8.5 against which the needle
P: the ting white figure of 8.5 against which the neidle

L: was resting could really mean hundreds of knots .
P: was resting could realy mean hundreds of knots .

L: They were nearing Modena . Geoffrey focused the radar scanner
P: They were nearing Modena . Geofrey focused the radarscamer

L: on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port .
P: on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to part ,

L: He was able to trace the course of the river ; he
P: the was able to trace the course of the rever ;

L: thought he could recognise the route of N12 ,
P: thought he could regagnise the riuke of , Naize

L: along which he had motored so desperately little
P: along which he had motored so desperaitely

L: more than twenty-four hours earlier . Since then
P: more that twepty-four hours earlier . Since . then

L: he had flown to England , attended the vital
P: he had flown to Englayed , atended the vital

L: conference in Bruce Denton's office , been whisked
P: conference in Bruce i ofice , ben whiched

L: by special helicopter from the Horse Guards
P: by special helicepter from the Morse Guards

L: Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for six blessed
P: parade to Roscembe Doiwn , slept for sype , blenga ! ,

L: refreshing hours and had now completed two-thirds
P: refreshina hours and had now completed two thurds

L: of the journey back to the place where every
P: of the journey lack to the place where , every

L: indication pointed to Eve being held .
P: indication pointed to . Eve being held .

L: Geoffrey set himself to consider the
P: geafrey sed himself to consider the

L: movements of the Bentley . It had passed
P: movements of the Prenfley . It had pased

L: him at the temporary bridge over the
P: him ad the temporary brilg over the

L: Tartaro at a few minutes past ten on the
P: Tor taso at a few minister part ten on the

L: previous night . He worked out the distance
P: previous night . He worked out the distane

L: on the presumption that its route had been
P: on the presumphior that its roike had ben

L: through Florence and Rome and then
P: through Pereme and home and ther

L: across Italy via Foggia to Barletta .
P: acros Ifoly vin Togits Parleta .

L: It came to just over six hundred
P: It came to just over six lundred

L: DARKNESS had descended like a curtain by the
P: DHEWES had descended like a cutan by the

L: time they docked at Belleray . And though Guy ,
P: time they docked at Beleray . And though huy ,

L: made nervous by Beryl's silence , drove at reckless
P: mace nerveus by Bery's silence , drove at reckles

L: speed to the Villa , it was quickly evident that
P: sped to the rila , it was quickly evident that

L: the party was over . Piers came strolling out to
P: the party was over . Pies came stroling out to

L: meet the Deanes , and as soon as Guy had
P: met the Dcanes , and as scon as amy had

L: driven away , invited them casually to come to
P: driven away , invited them casualy to come to

L: " Oh , she was due ! " And then he added in the same
P: On , she was due ! " And then he aded in the same

L: casual tone , " She 's not returning to her family . She 's
P: cesual toue , ' She's ad returning to her faminy . She 's

L: going to live with friends of the bank manager , just
P: going to live with friends of the bank manager , just

L: this side of Belleray . " Mrs. Deane made a suitable
P: this side of Beleray . " Mrs. Jecane mace a suitadle

L: comment , but Beryl said nothing . She was trying
P: coment , but Beryl said nothing . She was tying

L: to sort things out in her mind . That beneath his
P: to sort things out in her mind . That beneath Mis

L: unnaturally smooth exterior Piers was simmering
P: unaturaly suocth exterior Pies was simering

L: with anger against her she had no doubt .
P: with anger against hes she had no doubd .

L: To Beryl , at least , this was anti-climax with a
P: To Bery ' , at least , this was anti-climax with a

L: vengeance . She had expected to be met with violent
P: vengeance . She had expected to be met with vident

L: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .
P: reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .

L: But it did not take her long to realise that his mood
P: But it did not take her long to realise that his mod

L: was less pleasant than appeared on the surface .
P: was les pleasant than apeared on the suface .

L: He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his
P: He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his

L: own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of
P: own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of

L: asking Jack - as a representative of the Vallin family -
P: asking sack - as a representative of the Valin family -

L: to come over and make the presentation in her stead .
P: to come over and make the presertation in her stead .

L: " I caught him just as he was going to the
P: " I caught him just as he was going to the

L: airport to meet Blanche , " he said . " As a matter
P: airpat to met Blanche , " he said " As a moter

L: of fact I 'd asked him last night to deputise
P: of fact Id ushed him last night to deputise

L: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party
P: for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party

L: too . They 're both here . " " I didn't know she was
P: to . They 're both here . " " I dickit know she was

L: coming back from Barbados so soon . " Beryl
P: coming back from Barbados asoson . " Bery '

L: said the first thing that came into her head .
P: said the first thing that came into her head .

L: Jack and Blanche were quick to sympathise , and to
P: take and flanche were quick to sympating and to

L: express their disgust at Sir John's abominable treatment
P: eper their disgest of fir thais abomisble tredment

L: of his guests . But Piers remained aloof , and when Beryl
P: of his qrests . P . Piers remained alof , and when beryt

L: suggested having a second party , the following week , he
P: sugesfed havins a second papty , the folowing wed , he

L: poured cold water on the project . Everyone , he declared ,
P: porited ald waker on the project . Eardone , he declared ,

L: had had a thoroughly good time , and it would take them
P: had had a thoughly god time , and it would take them

L: nearly to next week to settle down again . Meanwhile
P: nearly to ned wek to setle down again . Meanwhile

L: Hubert would have betaken himself and his well-
P: Vatert would have betaken himsef and his wel -

L: earned gratuity to his native village at the
P: earned grafuity the his native vilage at the

L: " It 's your superior attitude that riles me . " Beryl was
P: " Hs yur superior atitude that pikes me . ' Beryt was

L: scarlet with annoyance . " How I happened to be marooned
P: scarlet with acnoyance ." tw I hapened to be maraned

L: at Balicou doesn't interest you in the faintest degree . You
P: at falicon desan't interest you in the faintert degre har

L: look as though it was only what you expected of me ,
P: lok as thoug it was only what you expetel of me ,

L: as though I didn't care a hoot about letting Hubert
P: as though I didnt care a hot about leting tabest

L: It was all over and done with .
P: It was al over and done with .

L: For the time being Beryl was content to let
P: For the time being bupt was content to let

L: it go at that , but she resolved to have
P: it go at that , but she resolved to have

L: it out with Piers when a reasonable
P: it out with Piers when a reasonable

L: opportunity presented itself . He must
P: oportunity presented itself . He must

L: learn that he could not treat her
P: learn that he could not treat her

L: with injustice and contempt , ignoring
P: with injustice and contempt , ighoring

L: her explanations as though he were
P: hes explanctrons as though he were

L: a schoolmaster and she a small ,
P: a scholmastes and she a smal ,

L: He gave her no chance of any private
P: He gave hes no chance of any private

L: conversation that evening , for when
P: convereation that evening , for when

L: Blanche and Jack left , he went with
P: Blanche and fack left , ho whut with

L: them . But next morning she insisted
P: them . But wet morning she insisted

L: on his taking her out in the jeep -
P: on his taking her out in the jep-

L: to find , if possible , Hubert and his
P: to find , if posible , Itmbert and his

L: relations , and tell them of
P: relations , and Lat tel them of

L: her great disappointment at being
P: hes great disapointment at beng

L: held up in Balicou .
P: help up in Balicon .

L: With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his
P: with an air of resignation he sent Judy , his

L: Boxer , to the back , and made room for her
P: Boxer , to the back , and made rom for her

L: beside him . " Is that all you want to do ? "
P: beside him . " Is that al you wand to do ? "

L: he asked , letting in the clutch . " No ; I want
P: he asked , leting is the chitch . " No ; I wast

L: to make you understand just what happened
P: to make you understard just what hapened

L: about this Balicou trip , " she returned
P: about this Balicon trip , " she returned

L: coldly . " I 'm a little tired of being treated
P: coldly . " I ' u a litle tired of being treated

L: like an ineffective imbecile . "
P: like an inefective inbecile . "

L: " And I 'm heartily sick of being constantly called
P: " and I 'm heardily sick of being constantly caled

L: to account for my manners , " he retorted .
P: to acount for my marners , " he retorted .

L: " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for
P: " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for

L: you the best way I can by getting hold of Jack
P: you the best way I can by geting hold of Jach

L: to make the presentation , I run the damned
P: to make the prevertation , Irun the damned

L: party to the best of my ability - saying the
P: party to the best of my ability - saying the

L: sugary things you ought to have been there
P: sugary things you ought to have ben there

L: to say - and all you can do is to find
P: to say - and al you can do is to find #

L: " As your employee it 's not my business
P: " As your employe it's not my busines

L: to understand all the whys and
P: to understand al the whys and

L: wherefores of your actions , " he said
P: wherefores of your actions , " he said

L: stiffly . " Still less to criticise you . "
P: stifly . ' Stil les to criticise you . "

L: " Oh , drop that nonsense , Piers !
P: " On , drop that nonseuse , Piers ?

L: Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with
P: Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with

L: mounting exasperation . " Very well ! " He
P: mounting exasperation . " Very wel ? " He

L: brought the jeep to a standstill in a rough
P: brought the jep to a standstil in a rough

L: path fringed and shaded by citrus trees .
P: path fringed and shaded by citrus tres .

L: " If you want my true opinion I 'll give it .
P: " If you want my true opinion l'l give it .

L: You made some sort of a protest to Graybury .
P: You made some sort of a protest to Grapbury .

L: I 'll give you credit for that . But you didn't press
P: I'l give you credit for that . But you didn't pres

L: the matter because , very naturally , you were
P: the mater because , very naturaly , you were

L: thoroughly enjoying Forrest's company in
P: thoroughly enjoying Forest's campany in

L: idyllic surroundings . " " How dare you say
P: idylic suroundings . " " How dare you say

L: such a thing ? " she blazed . " For goodness'
P: such a thing ? ' she blaged . " For godnes'

L: sake show a glimmer of reason , " was his
P: sake show a glimer of reason , " was his

L: equally indignant rejoinder .
P: equaly indigment rejounder .

L: " You talk as though we were alone on Balicou ! "
P: " You talk as though we were alone on Balican ! "

L: She avoided his gaze , and tried to ignore that
P: She avoided his gase , and tried to iqnore that

L: last impertinent remark . " With four other people - "
P: last impertiment remark . With four other people -"

L: " Whom you never once managed to circumvent . "
P: " Whom you never once managed to circument . "

L: The mockery in his voice had deepened . " With
P: The mocker , in his voice had depened . " With

L: all due deference , Miss Deane - come off it ! "
P: al due deference , Mis Deane-come of it ! "

L: She met his eyes then .
P: The cet his eyes them .

L: She wavered , and at last said
P: She wavered , and at last said #o

L: slowly , " If you must drag the truth
P: slowly , " If you must dray the truth

L: out of me , I must ask you to regard
P: out of me , i must ask you to regard

L: it as confidential . " " My dear Beryl ,
P: it as considential . " " My cear beryh ,

L: don't tell me anything , if you 'd rather
P: don't tel me anything , if yaid rather

L: not . " He was clearly startled by her
P: not . " He was clearly startled by her

L: words . " But remember , it was you ,
P: words . " But remember , it was you ,

L: not I , who started this conversation . "
P: not ) , who started this conversation . "

L: " Neither can Nigel , " smiled Diana .
P: " Weither can Nigek , " smiled Diana .

L: " He 's saving up to get married . Remember ? "
P: " He 's saving up to get maried . Remember ? "

L: " I remember , " quipped the houseman ,
P: ' A remember , " quiped the houseman ,

L: meaning no offence , " but does he ?
P: meaning no ofence , " but does he I

L: That blonde was something . " " Anybody
P: That blonde was something . " " Anybody

L: I know ? " she smiled . " I think so .
P: d know ? " she smiled . " A think so .

L: I got a good look at her . But if Nigel
P: Jeot a god lok at hes . But if Nigeh

L: wasn't there it isn't important , is it ? "
P: wasn't there it rsn't importants is it ? "

L: " No , " Di said immediately . " It isn't at
P: " No , " Sir said imediatly . " It isn't at

L: " Oh , he wasn't . His motor-bike had
P: " On , he wasn't . His motor-bike had

L: broken down outside and he noticed
P: broken down outside and he noticed

L: your car and then you dancing with
P: your car and then you cancing with

L: this blonde . " " Really ? " Nigel cocked
P: this blonde . " " Pealy : " Wigeh coked

L: one eyebrow . " Actually she was brunette
P: one eyebrow . " Actualy whe was brunethe

L: at the roots and I had a redhead on
P: at the rots and i had a redhead an

L: the other arm . He would have told
P: the other arm . He would have told

L: you this , too ? " " No , " she laughed .
P: you this , to ? " " No , " she langhed .

L: " He didn't actually see you . Because
P: " He didn't actualy se you . because

L: it was your car I suppose he
P: it was your car I supose he

L: presumed it was you , all dressed up in
P: presumed it was you , al dresed up in

L: " My white or my black ? " Nigel enquired .
P: " Hey white or may black ? " Wiget enquired .

L: " Now I wonder which I wore at that
P: " Now I wondes which I wore at that

L: particular surgery ? " " You are a fool ,
P: particular surgesy ? " " you are a fok ,

L: darling , " Di said happily . " I shall take
P: darting , " Di said hapily . " I shal take

L: great pleasure in telling that young man
P: great pleasure in teling that young man

L: exactly what you were doing that
P: exatly what you were doing that

L: evening . " " No , don't , " he said , after
P: evening . " " N0 , don't , " he said , ater

L: kissing her again . " I rather like to have
P: liesing her again . " A rather like to have

L: the housemen think of me as a
P: the housemen think of me as a

L: I 'm such a dull fellow , really . " " Dull ? " She
P: Ihn Such a dul felow , realy . " " Dul ? " She

L: couldn't believe it . Self-deprecation
P: couldn't believe it . Self-depre cation

L: was not one of Nigel's usual attributes .
P: was not one of Nigel's usual atiboutes .

L: " You need your holiday , darling . I only
P: " you ned your holiday , darling . I only

L: wish I could go with you ! " " Doctor
P: wish i could go with you ! " " Doctor

L: Wills , if you 're making improper suggestions ... ? "
P: wils , if you're making impropes suosestions . ? "

L: " It would make me more interesting ,
P: " It would make me more interesting ."

L: I suppose ? " she enquired archly .
P: I supose ? " she enquired archly .

L: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almost snapped ,
P: " No , it wouldn't ! " he almast shaped ,

L: surprising her . " You sounded like some-
P: surprising her . " you sounded like some-

L: body else for a moment there . It doesn't
P: body efe for a moment there . It doesn't

L: become you to behave like a - a tart , Di . "
P: become you to behave like a - a tart , d . "

L: " Nigel - ! " she gasped . " I didn't mean to
P: " Nigeh - ( " she gasped . " A didn't mean to

L: behave like anything of the kind . I
P: behave like anything of the leaed . O

L: was only joking . " " Well , don't . It 's
P: was only joking . " " Wel , don't . It's

L: miserable enough my having to take my
P: miserable enough my having to take my

L: leave in the autumn without you
P: leare in the autumn without you

L: trying to be bright and gay about it .
P: thying to be bright and gay about it .

L: Their air of smiling somnolence showed them
P: Their air of smiling somolence showed them

L: to have been guests at yesterday's
P: to have ben quests at yesterday's

L: celebrations , and their friendly welcome
P: celebrations , and their friendly welcome

L: and warm sympathy , as she explained
P: and warn sympathy , as she explained

L: how she had come to miss the party ,
P: how she had come to mies the party ,

L: made her send a complacent glance
P: made her send a complacent glance

L: in Piers' direction . What a fuss-box the
P: in Pers' direction . What a fus-lok the

L: man was , she thought impatiently ,
P: man was , she thought umpatunbly ,

L: trying to worry her into the belief
P: trying to mavy her into the belief

L: that her failure to appear at a function
P: that her failure to apear at a function

L: on the estate was a major error :
P: on the estate was a major eror .

L: And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing
P: and then she received a jelt . Old Hubent , standing

L: beside her , his battered hat in his hand , his
P: beside her , his batered hat in his hand , his

L: toothless mouth stretched in a wide grin , told her
P: tolhles manth strlched in a mide gain , told hes

L: in halting 6patois that " 3Mistah Piers " had
P: in haling Opatois that " DMistah Piers ' had

L: explained right at the start that " 3Mis' Beryl "
P: eplained right at the start that , Stis' Bery! "

L: would be 3" plenty , plenty sad " not to be back
P: would be 3' plenty , planty sad " not to be beck at

L: That it wouldn't be her fault at all . That
P: That it wouldn't be her fault at al . That

L: she was a lady who , like her Uncle Charles ,
P: she was a lady who , like her Unole Charth ,

L: took the highest pride in keeping her word . " I
P: tock the highest prick in kaping her word . ' I

L: could see 3anudder 3t'ing , " he went on in a
P: could se Sauder Sting , " he west on in an

L: lower voice , his sunken black eyes twinkling .
P: lower roice , his suter blach eyes tuinkling .

L: 3" He powerful anxious , poor Mistah Piers .
P: 3'the poutrful ancious , pour Mistak Pers .

L: We all know how Balicou Island dangerous
P: We al know how Palicon bland dangrous

L: to all kin' o' boats , wid d'ose big , big
P: to al kirl o boats , wid dlose big , big

L: rocks in an' out o' de water .
P: rarks in an' out of de wocter .

L: He had almost entirely settled back into his old
P: e had almost entirely seted back insto bis old

L: ways , even to reading law about two hours each
P: hays , evers te reading low about two bours ehich

L: day . Though he did not refuse wine , which the
P: day . Through he did not refuse-wine , which the

L: judge always had on the table at dinner , he
P: judge- alwoys bak on the table at disnes the

L: did not act as though he found it necessary
P: did not ack as though her found it necesary

L: except in moderate compliance with his father's
P: except in moderate compliance with his father's

L: Around that rounded rocky promontory where the
P: fround othat raunched rocly protuentory where the

L: white spray could be seen flying across the distance
P: white spray could be sen flying acrows the distaice

L: of a mile and a half , came the yawl under her full
P: of a mile and a helf , came the youl under her ful

L: triangular sail , and to the judge's frightened eyes , so
P: triauguler sail , and to the judge's frightend eyes , so

L: close to the rocks that it would be dashed
P: elose to the rocks that it would be dashed

L: against them with the lift of the next wave .
P: against them with the lift of the next wore

L: " That boy ! That damned fool boy ! What does he mean
P: " That boy ? That dauned fol boy ? What do he mican

L: by trying to come home now , even if he did promise ?
P: by tying to come home now , even if he old pronce ?

L: What does time mean when weighed against the life of
P: Whet doer tme mean when waghed apainst the life of

L: two human beings ? " Not until he was certain that the
P: two humen beigs ? " Not wil he wor certain thas the

L: yawl had rounded the rocky point instead of
P: pant had rounded the cocky point instead of

L: being flung against the huge boulders did the judge
P: being fluny apainst the hayge bouldes did the poge

L: empty his lungs of stifling air and refill them
P: emply hit mags of sifling air and refil them

L: with part of that howling northwest gale .
P: with part of that howling northnext gale .

L: When the wind was on a rampage , as it was
P: When the wind was on a rampaye , as it was

L: now , it could kick up a sea-sized commotion
P: now , it could kick up a sea-sired comation

L: where it had a straight blow of eight miles
P: where it had a straight blow of eight miles

L: down the lake . 3" Big blow , Judge , " re-
P: down the lake . A ' Dig blow , fudge , " r.

L: marked Willie Kim as the wind billowed
P: marked Wilie him as the wind bilowed

L: out and sucked in his baggy black
P: out and stucked in his bagy black

L: 3" Blow like hell . Maybe by and by
P: A" Dlow like hel . Magbe by and by

L: she blow some more . " " Hello , Willie , where
P: she blow some more . " " Helo , Wilie , wherie

L: did you come from ? " the judge said in
P: did you come from ? " the judge raid in

L: mild surprise . " I didn't hear you . Do you
P: mild surprise . " I didn't Lear gou . To you

L: see that fool boy of mine out there on
P: se that fol boy of uine out there on

L: the lake ? " 3" I see him . You don't need
P: the latce ? " 3 " ) te him . You don't ned

L: worry , Judge . Big wind like that can't
P: wory , fudge . Eng wind like that coult

L: Bill is good man , and Bueno Buck is raised on lake .
P: Bil is godman , and Bveno Buck is raised on take .

L: He no drown , too . Him , his mother throw him into
P: He no drown , to . Him , his mother throw himinto

L: water to make him swim when he is born .
P: water to make him seim when he is san .

L: Maybe so Bill , he can swim that good , too . "
P: Mayse so Bil , he can swim that god , to . "

L: The yawl , riding the high waves with an air that
P: The yaul , riding the high wares with an air that

L: might have made an ocean liner envious , seemed
P: might have made an ocon timer eurious , semed

L: prepared to make a safe though violent landing
P: prepared to make a safe though violent landing

L: when there came a sudden gust of wind
P: when there came a suden pot got of wind

L: " My God ! " the judge cried out . " The boy
P: " thy bod ! " the judge coied out . " The boy

L: is going to try to make a landing on the
P: is going to try to make a landing on the

L: weather side of that pier ! He 'll wreck ! "
P: weather side of that pier ! Hel wreck ! "

L: Willie Kim was speechless , only his slant
P: bilie tim was specdhles , only his claut

L: black eyes showing any emotion . With a
P: black eyes shosing any emotion . With a

L: quick shift of tiller , and at the same time
P: quick shift of tiler , and at the same time

L: jibbing the boom to which he had the
P: yibing the bom to shich he had the

L: stay rope fastened , Bill made the
P: stay rope fastened , bil made the

L: It seemed to the frightened judge
P: At sened to the frightened judge

L: as though his son would actually
P: as though his son would acdualy

L: shoot the craft in under the outer
P: shot the calt in muder the outer

L: end of the wharf . But by pressing
P: end of the whaf . But by presing

L: the tiller hard over and at the
P: the tiles had over and at the

L: same time dropping the small sheet
P: same time doping the smal sket

L: of wet canvas , Bill cleared the
P: of wet canar , bil cleared lhe

L: corner of the pier by inches , and
P: corhes of the pies by inclies , aled

L: with the tiller still hard over , brought
P: with the tiler stil had over , brought

L: the yawl up against the waves
P: the jout up against the Waves

L: " Willie , " the judge said huskily ,
P: "Wilie " the judge said hurskily ,

L: " that was as pretty a piece of seamans-
P: " that was as prety a piece of tearmaus -

L: hip as I ever saw . That boy of
P: hip as Sever vaw . That hoy of

L: mine seems to know how to do
P: unore sems to know how to do

L: everything , when he wants to . "
P: eurything , when he mants to , "

L: " 3Naw , " disputed Willie . 3" Just
P: i3 Naw , " dis puated Wilic , 3 ' Just

L: play in damn fine luck this time .
P: play in dan fome luck this time .

L: He plenty smart though . " As they
P: te planty smart though . As they

L: reached the pier , the judge on legs
P: reached the pier , the judge our leg

L: that were a little unsteady , they
P: that here a litle unsteady , they

L: found Bueno Buck , now on the
P: found Tueno Buck , mow on the

L: pier , leading the yawl toward
P: Fier. lecaldelte

L: " Hello , Dad ! " Bill called . " I hope you
P: " Halo , Ded ! " Bil coled . " I hope you

L: weren't worried . We 're going to
P: were't wouried . Weire going to

L: drag the boat ashore and turn
P: drog the boat ashore and two

L: her over . She has a foot of
P: hes over . The hos a fot of

L: water in her . I wouldn't be
P: Wate in her . I wouldn't be

L: surprised if we broke all
P: Surpised if we buske ol

L: speed records on the way in .
P: sped records on the way in .

L: Yes sir , I am slightly wet , and
P: fes sir , I am shightly wet , and

L: Buck would be wetter if he
P: Buch would . We nother if he

L: had more clothes on . "
P: had more cloter on . '

L: With four doing the job and the waves
P: With four cloing the jobs and the waves

L: pushing at the stern , the yawl was soon
P: pusching at the stern , the yaul was son

L: dragged out but before it was turned
P: draged out but before it was turned

L: over Bueno Buck reached into the foot
P: over Dueno Buck reached into the fot

L: of water , tossed out a string of silvery
P: of water , tosed out a string of silvery

L: lake trout and said - 3" Bill , he 's better
P: lake tront and said - 3 " Bil , he 's beter

L: man at catch 'em than Injun , Judge .
P: man at catch lem than Inyun , Yudge .

L: You look . Little one more as fifteen
P: You lok . Litle one more as fiften

L: inches . Maybe big one four feet ,
P: inches . Maybe big one four fet ,

L: " By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! "
P: " By Ceorge , that is a beautiful string of fish ! "

L: exclaimed the judge . " Toss them on the grass
P: exclaimed the judge . " Tos them on the gras

L: and then we 'll all get hold and heave . " A
P: and then we'l al get hold and Treace . " Ae

L: few moments later the yawl was upside
P: few moments later the yaurl was upside

L: down , exposing its shallow keel .
P: down , exporing its stalow tel .

L: A submariner's wife needed to be spared as much
P: A submariner's wife neded to be spared as much

L: as possible . Anyway the Parsifal affair was far
P: as posible . Anyway the Parsifal afair was f ar

L: too fresh in both their minds to be a comfortable
P: to fresh in both their minds to be a comfortablo

L: subject for discussion . " It 's a command , " he said .
P: subject for discusion . " It 's a comand , " he said .

L: We can do with the extra money . It 'll just about
P: We can do with the extra money . St'l sust about

L: pay Jacky's school fees . " " What shall we do
P: pay jaky's scol fes . " " What shal we cdo

L: about this house ? - and Jill's school ? - and oh !
P: about this house ? - and Gil's scol ? - and oh'

L: If I 'd known what it would be like I 'd sooner
P: If I'd known what it would be like I 'd sconer

L: have married a parson . " He kissed her . " Parsons
P: have maried a parson . " We Risether . " Parsons

L: work on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse off than
P: wore on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse of than

L: submariners . You ought to have married that fat
P: submariners . You ought to have maried that fat

L: stockbroker chap and shared him with his three
P: stolebrober chap and shared him with his thre

L: mistresses . Anyway it might be much worse .
P: mistreses . Anyway it might be much worse .

L: Pericles is a Portsmouth boat . She spends longer
P: Pericles is a Porlsmouth beal . She opends longer

L: in harbour than any other submarine .
P: in harbour than any other sutomatines .

L: Practically a shore job . Cheer up . " She wiped
P: Practicaly a shore job . Cher up . " She wiped

L: her eyes and reached for her address book . " I 'll
P: her eyes and reached for her adres bok . ' Jil

L: write to those agents and try to get a flat in
P: write to those agents and try to get a flat in

L: Alverstoke , " she said . " But I don't know what
P: Alverslotae , " she said . " But I don't know what

L: Jill will say about leaving her school . It 's a
P: fil wil say about leaving her scrof . It's a

L: blessing that Jacky 's off to boarding school .
P: blesing that Jacly's of to boarding scol .

L: And all the trouble you 've taken with the
P: And al the trouble you 're taken with the

L: That little beast , Robbie Munyard ! " Having
P: That litle beast , Robie Munyard ! " Having

L: said her say Peggy manfully shouldered her
P: said her say Peagy manufuly shouldered her

L: burden and prepared to break up yet
P: brother burden and prepared to breae up yet

L: another home . In the ten years of married life
P: another home . In the tenyears of marnied life

L: this had already happened half a dozen times .
P: this had already hapened half a dozen times .

L: Such is the life of a naval officer's wife .
P: Sud is the life of a naval aficer's wife .

L: John's father had been a naval officer of the old
P: John's father had ben a naval oficer of the old

L: school ; some of his rigid ideas had been passed
P: 30ol ; some of his rigid ideas had ben pased

L: on to the second generation . One of these was that
P: on to the second generation . One of these was that

L: an officer should join a ship , on taking up a
P: an oficer should soin a ship , on taking up a

L: new appointment , at nine a.m. precisely , dressed
P: new apointment , at nine am . precisely , dresed

L: in the modern equivalent of frock-coat and sword .
P: in the modern equiratent of troc-coat and sword .

L: It would have been acceptable to all concerned
P: It would have ben aceptable to al concerned

L: if John had stepped into Fort Blockhouse clad in
P: if john had steped into Fort Blochouse clad in

L: plain-clothes on the previous night , but ways
P: plain-clother on the previous night , but ways

L: instilled by martinet parents have a habit of
P: instiled by martinet parents have a habet of

L: So he put up for the night at The Admiral's Head , that
P: So he put up for the riught at the Admiral's Head , that

L: famous Portsmouth hostelry , second only in historic
P: famours Portrmuith hoskhny , secand only in listeric

L: interest to The George , unhappily destroyed by German
P: interest to the Cecrege , unhapily destrayed by German

L: bombs during the last war . Having deposited his
P: lonhs during the last war . Having deposited his

L: baggage and unpacked his overnight-bag he
P: beagage and unparched his overnight-bay he

L: went in search of a drink . The lower bar was
P: went in search of a drisde . The lower bar was

L: empty , save for the lady known by all habitue
P: empty , save for the lady kanown by al habitue

L: man who was staring moodily into a gin
P: man who was storing modily into a gin

L: Seaweed's memory was prodigious ; her manner
P: Seawed's memory was prodicgious ; ther maner

L: must have been worth a great deal to the proprietors
P: must have ben worth a great deal to the proprictors

L: of the hotel . She greeted John , however , with less
P: of the hotd . The opected Jaken , however , with les

L: than her usual cordiality and flashed a warning
P: than has resual cardiality and flashed a warning

L: glance at him . Evidently the other occupant
P: glance at hir . Evidently the other ocupant

L: of the bar was not 6persona grata . If her
P: of the bar was not Epersana grate . If his

L: memory was good , so was this stranger's .
P: meney was god , so was this stranger's

L: " You 're Commander Winter , " he said . " Have a
P: " You ' re Comander Winter , " he said . " Houe a

L: gin ? " He turned to Seaweed -
P: gin ? " He turned to Seaned -

L: " Make it a large one , darling . I know the naval
P: " ake it a large asce , darlines . I bencew the naval

L: habits . ' Drink gin and call each other wallahs ,
P: halits . " Prisle gain and cal each other walakes ,

L: what ! ' - as the Guards officer said on his return
P: what ! ' - as the Ccuards oficer said on his return

L: from a visit to the Royal Navy . Submarines , what .
P: from a sisit to the Rayal May . Sulmarines , what .

L: Youngest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled
P: Younegest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled

L: inside a submarine casing to defuse a Jerry
P: inside a sulmasine casing to defuse a fery

L: bomb . Should have been a V.C.
P: bosk Should have ben a l.C.

L: What are you waiting for , darling ? The officer is
P: Whutore you waities for , darhings ? The oficer is

L: obviously thirsty . " John fought back his
P: alviausly Miristy . " Jotin fought back his

L: inherited desire to snub the man . If he did he
P: inherited desire to smub the man . If he did he

L: would have to leave the bar and either sit in
P: would have to leave the bar and wither sit in

L: the lounge or return to his bedroom .
P: the lange ar return to his bedron .

L: Seaweed sensed his embarrassment and
P: Seared sensed his encharasment and

L: came to the rescue . " You haven't introduced
P: came to the resoue . " You haven't introduced

L: yourself , " she said with mock severity .
P: yourself , " she said with made severity .

L: " It 's a rule on these premises . No treating with
P: " It 's a nulean these premises . Ao treting with

L: strangers - that 's right , John , isn't it ? " " My
P: strangers - that 's right-falm , isnit it ? " " My

L: fault entirely , " said the stranger . " It 's my conceited
P: famit exdriely , " said the stranger . ' It 's my concited

L: nature - I assumed that you both knew who I
P: nature-Sanumed that you beth kinewer who I

L: was . I 'm Ian Bawley . Does that mean anything
P: Was . Jom Ian Pawley . Eves that mean anything

L: to you ? " It did . Ian Bawley's name was
P: toyai ? ' Itdid . Ian Panley's name has

L: printed at the head of most naval articles
P: printed at the head of mast naval arkicles

L: " Oh , the Press , " said Seaweed . " Down here on business , Mr.
P: " On , the Pres: " said benwerd , " Hlown here on businus , Mr.

L: Bawley ? " " A pressman is always on the job . "
P: Bawly ? " " A proseman is always on the job . '

L: He held out his hand and John could not do
P: He held out his haid and John could not do

L: otherwise than take it . " Pleased to meet you ,
P: otherewise than take it , " pleased to mect you ,

L: Commander , " he said . " Now what about that
P: Comander , " he said . " Now what about that

L: drink ? " John nodded - he could afford to buy
P: drink ? " Johen moded - he could aford to buy

L: one in return and he was lonely .
P: one in return and he was lonely .

L: " For the sake of accuracy , " he said , " and I
P: " for the sake of acuracy , " he said , " and A know

L: know how you newspaper people value that commodity ! -
P: hour you newopoper walve that comodity ! -

L: please don't address me as Commander . I 'm
P: plense don't adres me as Comander . A'm

L: a Lieutenant-Commander . Perhaps we could
P: A Lieubenand- Comander . Perhaps we could

L: drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You 're
P: drop the rante - such a mouthiful ! " " Jou're

L: absolutely right , " said Bawley , as he pushed over
P: absolubly right : ' said Bawlay , as he pushed over

L: his glass . " Fill it up , darling . Accuracy above
P: his glus . " Fil it up , darking . Acurncy above

L: all else . We pride ourselves about accuracy on
P: al dise . We pride ourselves about acuracy on

L: Ever known us bowl a wide about your Service ?
P: Ever known ns bout a wide about your berice s

L: Check and counter-check - nothing but the truth .
P: Checte and courd-chece - nothing but the truth .

L: Somewhat embarrassing , what ? " " How can the
P: Borewhed embarasing , what ? " " How can the

L: truth be embarrassing ? " John sipped his double
P: truch be emburosing . " John siped his double

L: gin with relish . It was his favourite brand ,
P: gin with rotish . It was his farourite borand ,

L: he was on the verge of a new chapter in
P: he was one the verge of a new chapter in

L: his career , and his companion's attitude was
P: his carer , and his compasion's abitude was

L: Life at home and in Bath had been a
P: libe at home and in Bath had ben a

L: trifle too comfortable and humdrum .
P: trigle to comfortable and hundrun .

L: He 'd never before met a pressman and
P: Heid never before met a presman and

L: found him curiously stimulating . " You 're a
P: found him curiously stimulating . " Joure a

L: bit of a humorist , aren't you ? " said
P: bit of a humorist , averit you ? ' said

L: Bawley . " The truth is usually very embarra-
P: Bawley . " The cruth is noualy very ambura-

L: ssing . You 're in submarines , aren't you ? "
P: sing . Jou're in submarines , aren't you , '

L: " You know a great deal about me , "
P: " You fenour a great deal about ome , "

L: " It 's my business . I 'll tell you more . You 're
P: " He's my businers . Jul tel you more . You're

L: going to take over command of Pericles . Am I
P: going to take over comand of perides . An I

L: right ? " " Who told you ? " " Little bird .
P: right ? " " Who told you ? " " Jixele bird .

L: Other half ? " John nodded . " On me . " Bawley
P: Ocher half ? " John moded . " On me . " Bawlay

L: shook his head . " All paid for by His Lordship , "
P: shote his hend . " Ael paid for by this Lordship . "

L: he said . " Expense account . You 're a married
P: he said . " Expense acount . Joure a maried

L: man with a couple of kids . Can't go wasting
P: man with a couple of feids . Cavil yo warking

L: your substance on a complete stranger . Set
P: your subslance on a complete stranger . Bet

L: John flushed . " I 'm not in need of charity . " " Come
P: John plushed . " I 'm not in mud of charity " Com

L: off it , " said Bawley . " The proprietor of the Daily
P: of it s' sait Banly . " The propricter of the Daily

L: Courier knows what 's going on . If he doesn't mind ,
P: Conier knows what 's going on . If he doesrit mind ,

L: why should you ? " " I see . " John took the
P: why should you ? " " I ge . ' Johen tok the

L: refilled glass and looked over the rim at his
P: refaled glas and locked ever the rim at husi

L: companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? "
P: companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? '

L: " You misjudge me , " said Bawley . " You have
P: " You mispilge me , ' said Bawly " You have

L: nothing to tell me , yet . But we 'll be meeting
P: nothing to tel mer yet . But we'l be meting

L: again , no doubt , and then you will have .
P: egai , wo doubt , and then you wil have

L: Regard this as a softening-up process , and
P: egard this as a sefturing up precs and

L: have dinner with me ? On His Lordship ,
P: have cuiner with me . On ths Lordship ,

L: of course . " " On one condition , " said John .
P: of course . " " On oe conditions , " said Johen .

L: " Tell me who the little bird was . " " Can't
P: Fel me who the litle bird was . " " Caust

L: you guess ? Whose portrait appears regularly
P: yur ques ? Wose partrait apears reyularly ,

L: " You mean Munyard ? " " Sure . Very useful
P: you mean thenyard ? " ' Sure . Very useful

L: contact , is our Robbie ; he gives us the gen and
P: contact , is our Robr ; he gives us the gen and

L: we give him the publicity . ' The Honourable
P: we guive heins the publicity . ' The Honeurable

L: " Robbie " and friend ' , what ? You know the
P: " Robi " and friend ; what I You knew that

L: sort of thing . " " You 'll get nothing out of me , "
P: sut of ting . " Youl get nothing out of me ,"

L: said John , " but you can pay for my drinks
P: said Jchen , ' but you can pay for my chinkes

L: if you want to , as long as you keep off
P: of you want to , as long as you hep of

L: " Good-oh ! One for the grill-room , darling , and
P: " God-chul One for the quil-rom darhing , and

L: tell George to bring in the 6carte du jour . "
P: tel Gearge to bring in the bark de jour . "

L: Bawley was a man of his word . He kept
P: Bauhy was a man f his word . He hept

L: away from Service matters , was an excellent
P: away prom Sewice maters , was an excelent

L: host and a splendid raconteur . The evening
P: hest and a splendid racentour . The waning

L: passed all too quickly . As they parted in
P: pased al to quickly . As they parted in

L: the vestibule the two men were well
P: the vestibule , the two men were wel

L: disposed towards each other .
P: disposed towards one another .

L: " Ever been to Fleet Street ? " asked Bawley .
P: " Ever ben to Plut Stret Dashed Rawly .

L: " You should . Next time you 're in Town
P: " You should . Pext time gouire in Town

L: give me a ring at this number and I 'll
P: give me a ving at this number and 1 ' '

L: take you round the pubs where most
P: tak you round to the pubs where most

L: of the work is done . " He held out a card .
P: of the work is done . " He held out a card .

L: John took it and put it in his pocket .
P: Oohn tok it and put it in his pocket .

L: " Thanks , " he said . " If ever my missus
P: ' Thanks , " he said . " If ever my musus

L: lets me off the chain I 'll take you
P: lets me of the chain l take you

L: Ever been out in a submarine ? I 'll give
P: lver ben out in a submarine ? I'l give

L: you a spin round one of these days , if you
P: you a spin round one of these days , if you

L: like . You could write it up . " Bawley made a face .
P: like . You could write it up . " Bawley made a face .

L: " Not in Pericles , old man . " " Why not ? "
P: " Not in Pricdes , old men . " " Why not ? "

L: " Better ask Robbie Munyard . " " What 's he been
P: " Beter aske Robic thumyard . " " What 's he ben

L: saying ? " John was furious . The little squirt !
P: saying ? ' Johen was furions . The litle sguist !

L: To go gassing to a newspaper man !
P: To go gasing to a newspaper men !

L: " Look ! " he went on earnestly . " You 're not going
P: " Rok ! " he went on earnestly , " You are not going

L: to write up Pericles in some way or other , are
P: to write up Poricdes in some way or other , are

L: you ? " " What is there to write up ? " said
P: you ? " " What is there to write up ? " said

L: Bawley . " There are forty-three submarines in
P: Bawley . " There are forly - thre sulomarines in

L: the Navy - why should I pick on Pericles ? "
P: the Many - why should i pick on Brikers ? "

L: John eyed him steadily . " It 's the Parcifal
P: John eyed him steadily . " It 's the Pancifal

L: business , isn't it ? " he said quietly .
P: busines , in't it ? " he said quietly .

L: " I don't want it to happen again , " said Bawley -
P: " I don't want it to hapen again , " said Banley-

L: " more so than ever since I met you . "
P: " more so than ever since I met you . "

L: " What did Munyard say ? " " The Snort - hull
P: " What did themyard say ? " " The Inort-hul

L: fitting fractured . " " Supposing I was to tell you that
P: fiting fractured . " " Luposing I was to tel you that

L: we 've had Pericles' entire Snort equipment removed
P: We ' we had Bricles' entire fwort equipment removed

L: and X-rayed and that it was as sound as a bell ? "
P: and A-rayed and that it was as sound as a bel

L: " Munyard didn't tell me that . But I must confess
P: " Mungard didn't tel me that . But I must confers

L: I 'm relieved . But it still doesn't do away
P: I 'm relieved . But it stil doesn't do away

L: with the possibility of faulty design . " He held
P: with the posibility of faulty design . " He held

L: out his hand . " Maybe I will take a trip with you
P: out his hand . " Naybe I wil take a trip with you

L: one of these days , " he said . " In the meantime
P: one of these days , " he said . " In the meantine

L: I 'll tell my editor that the story 's a dead bird .
P: T' tel my editor that the story's a deod bird .

L: Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring -
P: Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring-

L: any time - knock twice and ask for Bawley , what ? "
P: anytime -lenode tvice and ask for Bawley , what ? '

L: " I don't know when that will be , " said John .
P: ' I don't konow when that wil be , " said bokn .

L: " I shall be busy for a while , cleaning up after
P: " I shal be busy for awhile , cleaming up after

L: Master bloody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines ,
P: Master blody Mumyard . " THRE were six submarines ,

L: lying in pairs alongside the jetty at Fort Blockhouse .
P: lying in pairs alongside the jely at Ford Dlocthouse .

L: Black and grimly businesslike they both looked and
P: black and grimly businestive they beth locked and

L: sounded , for all of them were rumbling as they
P: sounded , for al of them were numbling as they

L: charged their electric batteries .
P: charged their electric buteries .

L: A light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhaust in
P: At light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhanst in

L: through the open windows of the Captain's house . It
P: through the open coindows of the Captain's house . It

L: pervaded every room but neither Harry nor Madeleine
P: pervaded every rom but meither Haury nor Madeleine

L: Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over
P: Purton moticed its existence as they sut in silence oven

L: a substantial breakfast . Although usually a very
P: a subtartial breafast . Although usualy a very

L: talkative lady Madeleine respected her husband's
P: talative lady Madeleine respected her husband 's

L: silences , for she knew they betokened a worry of
P: silences , for she knew they betokened a wory of

L: There had been many such breakfasts lately since the
P: There had ben many such brealfasts lakely since the

L: affair of Parsifal . Harry had lost a good deal of weight .
P: afair of Pursifal . Hary had last a god deal of weight .

L: His normal placid and steady-going manner remained ,
P: His narmal placid and steady-going masnoer resmained ,

L: but she could see that it no longer came naturally .
P: but she could se that it no longer came naturaly .

L: It is the common lot of all Squadron Senior Officers
P: It is the comon lot of al squadion Senior Oficers

L: to experience such catastrophes as the loss of a submarine ,
P: to experience such caltastrophes as the los of a submurine ,

L: though in peace time these happenings are few and
P: though in peace time these hapenings are few and

L: This is the testing time for all . The affair blows up into
P: This is the testing time for al . The afair blows up into

L: a national disaster and then when it is all over life
P: a national disaster and them when it is al over life

L: must continue as before . During this period the Captain
P: must constinue as before . During this peried the Captain

L: must present an unruffled appearance and carry on as
P: must present an unsufled apearance and cary on as

L: if nothing unusual has happened . Harry Turton had
P: if nothing unusual has hapened . Hary Purton had

L: written letters to the bereaved , had visited many in the
P: writen leters to the bereaved ,had visited many in the

L: locality , had been interviewed by the Press , had driven
P: locality , had ben interviewed by the Pres , had driven

L: his surviving submarines a good deal harder than
P: his surviving submarines a god deal harder than

L: usual and in fact had applied all the usual specifics
P: usual and in fact had aplied al the usual specifics

L: He rode down to where I was waiting . I was
P: He rode dawn to where I was wailing . I was

L: thinking what a skill he had for reading
P: thinkig what a skil he had for reading

L: my mind . " This would be as good a place
P: mny mind . " This would he as goud a place

L: for a hold-up as any , " he said , reining in
P: for a hold-up as any , " he said , rainy in

L: near me . " Yes , " I said . " It 'll be here to-
P: new me . " Yes , ' I said . " It 'l be mere to-

L: morrow as likely as not . " I paused . " Miss
P: morow as likely as not . " Ipained . " Mis

L: Jeannie 'll be on that coach , Dan . "
P: Seamiel be on that couch , Dan . "

L: " Yes , " he said . " I know . " " No harm must come
P: " Yes , " he said . " Vonrow . " " No harn must cone

L: to her , Dan . " " She 'll be all right . It 's the
P: to her , Dan . " " She l he al right : It's the

L: men who 'll be after that coach I 'm interested
P: men whol be after that coach I 'm introsted

L: in , Johnny . " " I know . But if lead starts
P: in , Dohing . " " I law . But if lead sterts

L: flying she might be in danger . " " That 's so .
P: Plying the mubt he in danyer " " Thas so .

L: But I reckon they 'll be too busy shooting at
P: But Ireclan they 'l he two bung choty at

L: us to bother with the coach and the folks
P: us to bother with the couch and the loles

L: " Maybe , " I said . " But we 've got to remember
P: Mayhe , " I said . " But we 've jot to rememher

L: that girl all the time , Dan . I feel kind
P: that girl al the time , Dan : I fel hind

L: of responsible for her . " " Of course , " he said ,
P: of resporishle for ner . " " Of couse , " he said ,

L: giving me one of his strange looks . Then he
P: ging me one of his Nage loks . Then he

L: turned the conversation . " Let 's ride over
P: turned the conversation . " Let's picde wher

L: and have a look at the mining camp .
P: and have a lok at the ming camp .

L: After all it 's them we 're supposed to be
P: After al ils them were suporecd to be

L: working for , as well as the townsfolk and
P: working for , as wel as the tomololk and

L: With something of a start I remembered the
P: with somothing of a start I remonhered the

L: man who 'd brought us into this business .
P: man whod bought us into this busners .

L: " Maybe you don't know about Appleton ,
P: " Nanghe you don't know about Apleton ,

L: Dan ? " " Know what ? " " That he 's dead , "
P: bun ? " " Inow what ? " " That he s dead , "

L: I said . I watched him because I was always
P: I said . I watched him became I was always

L: fascinated by the way he looked when you
P: fascinated by the way he loked when you

L: tried to surprise him . " Dead ? " he said . " Yes .
P: tied to surprise hin . " Pead ? " he said . " Yes .

L: Dead . Shuffled out of the deck . Blasted
P: dead , Shuled out of the check . Blasted

L: down with a shotgun outside the Palace
P: down with a shoten outside the Palace

L: " Fenton or Somers , " he said . " Or the Town
P: " Fenton or tomes , " he sid . " Or the joun

L: Marshal , " I added . His face was fixed ,
P: Marshal , " I aded . His face was fixed ,

L: unreadable as a rock . " Let 's get over to the
P: unceadable as a cock . " Lets get over to the

L: mining camp , " he said abruptly . He wheeled
P: mining camp , " he said abpuptly , be wheled

L: his horse back off the trail and up the slope
P: his hose hack of the tail and up the dape

L: leading to the ridge . I followed . From the
P: reading to the ricdye . I folowedy From the

L: top you could see something of the wild hill
P: top you could se comething of the wild hil

L: country that lay all round Gilburg Crossing .
P: counby that log al cond Gilong croming .

L: The air was fresh and clear and you
P: The air was breshs and clear and you

L: could see far over west and north for many
P: could se her west and worth for many

L: miles . The real high country of the Rockies
P: mules . The real high county of the Rockies

L: lifted up in the distance like a pale water-
P: lifted up in the chistance live a pale waler-

L: colour drawing . Between us and that lay
P: colour drawing . Betwen us and that long

L: a vast stretch of hills , canyons , buttes and
P: a vast wich of hils , cangous , buls and

L: " The mine-workings lie north of the town , "
P: The mine-workings hie noth of the town , "

L: said Dan . " If we head west we ought to
P: said dan . " If we head west we ought to

L: cut the trail leading from Gilburg to the north . "
P: cut the bail leading bom gilay to the north . '

L: So we swung west , making slow going over
P: So me sung west , making vlow yoing over

L: rough country , sliding on shale , climbing down
P: rough counly , oliding on whale , climbing clom

L: into draws , circling a big mesa by a
P: wite drews , airching a big men by a

L: four or five mile valley , sandy-floored . It
P: four ar live mile valy , sandy-floured . It

L: got hotter as the day wore on and we rested
P: Jut haler as the day uve on and he roted

L: gratefully by a small creek where we watered
P: gralefuly by a omal wek where he watered

L: the horses and drank enough to cure our
P: the harges and drank gpough to cure ve

L: An hour's riding brought us to a trail that
P: In howb ricdiy brought us to a tail that

L: we figured would lead to the miners' camp .
P: we lured would lead to the nuey camp .

L: We turned north into it and after about four
P: We tuned north into it and alter about for

L: miles it led into a small canyon which
P: miles it led lute a smal cangon which

L: opened out into a wide shallow draw .
P: opened out into a mile chulow craw .

L: Here in a dried-up creek-bed we found
P: Htere in a driod-up creleched we foimed

L: the miners at work . They were scattered
P: the miners ct wor . They were calered

L: over a fairly wide area working singly or
P: over a faivey mide were working onyly or

L: We didn't approach unchallenged . Just short
P: We widn't aproach unchalenget . Iut On07

L: of the diggings there was a roughly-built
P: of the cigings there was a roughly -built

L: shack and as we got near someone inside bawled
P: chack and as we got new soreone inpicde tenled

L: out , " If you come any closer , I 'll sure blow
P: and , " If you come any closer , I 'h swe blow

L: your whiskers off . " " Take it easy , mister , " I sang
P: your whishers of . " " Take it cory , mitler , ' Iay

L: out . " We don't aim to come any closer and we 've
P: out . " We don't aim to come any clow and neve

L: got no whiskers so as you can see . Just you
P: get no wholes so as you can se . Deh you

L: go and tell Nick Dowd we 've come to talk
P: go and tel Wick Doud we've come to talk

L: to him about what happened last night . "
P: to him aboud what hapened last miges . "

L: " Oh , " said the unseen guard . He blew a
P: On , " said the unsen quard . He blew a

L: whistle then , loud and shrill . The gun barrel
P: Winable then , land and wil . The yun borel

L: peeking out through a hole in the shack never
P: peling out though a hole in the chack never

L: wavered . We sat our horses , waiting . " Looks as
P: waved . We sut ow horses , waity . " Loks us

L: though they 're expecting trouble , " I said . " Where
P: though they're expocty trouble , " I said . " Where

L: there 's gold and women there 's always trouble , "
P: theres gild and women there's atwags trouble ;

L: observed Dan , shifting about in his saddle . He
P: observed san , hifty about in his sudle . He

L: Mr. Copthorne knew a way round by the side
P: Mr. Copthome lines a way round by the ride

L: of the church where there was a small open
P: of the church where there was a smal open

L: outbuilding where the grave digger kept his spades
P: outhuilding where the grave diger lept his spades

L: and forks and tidying up implements . It might
P: and forls and tidying up simplements . At might

L: be open . It was . He entered , and seated himself
P: be open . At was . He entered , and reated himsel

L: in a huddle upon an upturned wheelbarrow .
P: in a hundle upon an upturned whelbarow .

L: His curious headgear fell off . Strange things
P: this cnrious headgear fel of . Strange thing

L: were going on in his bewildered brain . When
P: were going on in his bewildered brain . When

L: a man was drowning and towards his last
P: a man was drowning and towards his last

L: gasp it was scientifically supposed his whole
P: gap it was acientificaly euposed his whicle

L: life came up before him in some cinematic
P: life come up before him in some cinemetic

L: Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church
P: Mr. Copthosme was on dry land in a church #

L: outbuilding , but this was happening to him now . He
P: outhuilding , but this was hopaning to him now . He

L: saw himself as a sulky , ugly , malformed , repressed
P: sow humself as a suly , ugly , walforned , represed

L: boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing
P: boy , then a young youth . He saws himself refusing

L: baptism according to the sect his parents belonged to .
P: buptism acording to the sect his porents blouget to .

L: Walking out of the chapel later on . Continuing
P: Walking out of the chaped later on Continuing

L: on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-
P: on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-

L: canery and corruption , the growth of the dea-
P: conery and comeption , the growth of the doa-

L: dly decadence and absorption in debase-
P: dly decadence and absorption in debase-

L: ment and Satanic debauchery .
P: ment and Satanic debanchery .

L: He didn't know what to make of it , but it
P: He didn't know what to make of it , but it

L: was Mr. Copthorne all right . Perhaps he had
P: was Mr. Copthorme al right . Perhops he had

L: been attending some kind of fancy dress do
P: ben atending some kind of fancy dres do

L: in London . Very strange his eyes looked . Mad ,
P: in London . Very strange his eyes loked . Mad ,

L: hunted eyes , as if the poor fellow had rocks in
P: hunted eyes , as if the por felow had wocks in

L: his head , so the verger described afterwards .
P: his head , so the verger discribed after wards .

L: " You 're very early about , sir , " he said , trying to
P: " You'e very early about , sir , " he said , luying to

L: " Yes . I travelled down from London
P: inlfes . Idraneled obocun fom deadan

L: as the dawn was breaking , and
P: as the dlawn was hreading , and

L: the thought came to me I 'd like
P: the thoghf came to me Id like

L: to take a look at the church . I 've
P: ta take a laok af the cheurcd . I ne

L: never been inside . Very remiss of
P: ever bektireice . Elegrenerof

L: me , " said Mr. Copthorne . The verger
P: me , " saed alio Copbeleasme . Ohe ceger

L: led the way in . " The stained glass
P: led the way in . " The staine gla

L: windows , sir , they date back to
P: mindows , sir , they date leak to

L: the fourteenth century . "
P: the facrlextl cenlecey . "

L: There were few passengers on the plane and Gavin was
P: There were few pasengers on the plane and Bavin was

L: quickly through the customs . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl
P: quikly through the curtoms . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl

L: and her luggage had disappeared and they were alone
P: and her lugage had disapeared and they were alone

L: together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the
P: together . The porter brought bavin's bay out to the

L: taxi . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin pressed her
P: tawi. , Just a moment , darling , " Gavin presed her

L: hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the
P: hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the

L: Gay went out to the waiting
P: gay went out to the weiting

L: taxi , and then found that in
P: taxi , ance then found that in

L: the excitement of meeting
P: the excitement of meting

L: Gavin she had left her sun-
P: gevin she lead left her sun-

L: glasses on the veranda . She
P: glases on the reraucece . The

L: went quickly back to fetch them .
P: went qpickly back to fetch them .

L: Gavin and the girl who had got
P: gavin and the girl who haor got

L: off the plane with him were talking .
P: of the plane with him were talking .

L: He was writing something in his
P: He was writing something in leris

L: pocket-book , with a sick feeling
P: pocket-bok , with a sik feling

L: of despair Gay knew that of course
P: of despair gay knew that of cocerse

L: Gay , sitting opposite Gavin on the terrace could
P: gay , siting oposite Gavin on the terace could

L: hardly believe that she was the same girl ,
P: hardly believe that she was the some gial ,

L: miserable , shy , who had sat at the little
P: miscrable , shy , who had sot at the letle

L: table for the first time a few days ago .
P: table for the first time a tew days ago .

L: Gavin raised his glass to her and smiled
P: Gavin raised his glars to her and smiled

L: and Gay's heart turned over . " I 'd like
P: and Day's lead turned over . " I 'd leke

L: to do that . " Gavin drained his glass
P: to do that . " Govin drained his glas

L: " And then we 'll go for a stroll along the
P: " And then we' l go for a strol along the

L: beach . A moon like this mustn't be wasted . "
P: beach . A mon like this mustn't be wasted . "

L: He gestured towards the bay where the full
P: He gestured lowards the bay where the ful

L: moon was just rising over the rocks , then
P: won was just rising over the rods , then

L: laid his hand on hers . Gay smiled at him
P: Caid his hand on ners . Goy quiled at hin

L: again , happy beyond belief , knowing that
P: again , hapy beyond beief , unowing that

L: now Gavin was in love with her and her
P: now fawin was in cove wither 8 her

L: only , yet remembering for a second the
P: Only , yet remambering for a sond the

L: kisses she had seen him giving Elaine .
P: Mises she had sen him giving claine .

L: All that was part of the past , she would put it behind her . She
P: Ol that was part of the past , she would put it behind ther . The

L: would never be jealous again , would even take Larry's advice and
P: would never be yeadour again , would even take hary 's aduce and

L: look the other way if need be . " I say ! " Gavin was looking over her
P: lok the other way if ned be . " I say , " Gawiuas loking over her

L: shoulder . " That 's a pretty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Isn't she
P: showlder . That 's a prely gil . " Gay glanced behind her , , Van't the

L: lovely , she 's French , a very well known model I believe .
P: lovely , she 's French , a very wel know model I believe ,

L: Gay , a little puzzled , went through
P: Gay , a litle pugled , went theough

L: to the bar . Doc and Lilyan were
P: to the bae . Doc and hilyom were

L: sitting just inside having coffee .
P: siting just inside having cofe .

L: " Come and join us and bring your
P: " Come and join us and being youe

L: boy friend , " Doc called . " No , Doc ! "
P: boy fiend , ' Doc caled . " No , Doc ! "

L: Lilyan remonstrated . " They want to be
P: filyon censonsteated . " They want to be

L: alone . " " I 've booked a table at the
P: alone . " " I 're boked a table at the

L: tonight so come and join us if you
P: tonight so come and join us if you

L: can't find a table for two . "
P: con't find a table for two . "

L: The others were all dancing and
P: The othes were al cancing and

L: as Gay drew out a chair and sat
P: as fay clew out a chair and sat-

L: down Gavin , without a word , swept
P: down faven , without a word , swept

L: Simone on to the floor . " It doesn't mean
P: Simone on to the floce . ' It doesn't meace

L: anything , " Gay told herself desperately ,
P: aniything , " jay told herself despacately ,

L: trying to understand Gavin's point of
P: bying to enderstand fowin point of

L: view and remembering the advice
P: view and remembering the advice

L: that Larry had given her , while she
P: that dacey had given her , while she

L: felt wretched beyond words .
P: felt wetched beyound woeds .

L: Gay thanked him and walked out on to
P: gay Hanked him and wolked out on to

L: the terrace thinking that perhaps Gavin
P: te textace kinking that perlaps gavin

L: had bought a drink and taken it outside .
P: had baught a drink and token it outside .

L: She looked round scanning the tables ,
P: the loked round scaming the tables ,

L: then caught her breath , a cold hand
P: then caughther breate , a cold hand

L: seeming to clutch her heart . Gavin was
P: sening to culd he exart . Sowin was

L: seated at a small table in a shadowy
P: seated at a smale tabe in a sladowy

L: corner talking animatedly to Simone .
P: comer taking auinatedly to simour .

L: As Gay watched he offered the girl a
P: as gay watched he Ofered the girl a

L: cigarette and lit it , his hands cupping
P: cigarete and lit it , his lands cupling

L: hers in an intimate way .
P: hnws in an intinote way

L: Gay stood irresolute for a moment , half
P: gay stod iresolute for a momunt , eaey

L: decided to go back and join Lilyan and
P: decided to go back and join lilgan and

L: Doc , while she wanted to do no more than
P: C0 , whie she wanted to do no more teaw

L: run upstairs to her room , knowing that
P: men ustaits toke row , knowing teol

L: Gavin although he had told her that he
P: gauin although he had told es that he

L: loved her , was already flirting with a girl
P: lowedher , was already feirting wire a girl

L: that he had only met a few minutes before .
P: teat he lod only met a few minuntes before .

L: Larry's advice flashed through her mind ,
P: cory's aidvice feashed through her mind ,

L: but she turned away , giving a little
P: but she tured oway , giving a lite

L: gesture of hopelessness , knowing that her
P: gesture of Lopelesuex , kowing tather

L: His behaviour was not only boorish and in the worst of
P: His behavious was not only burish and the worst of

L: taste but it was unkind beyond words . She fumbled
P: tark but it was unkind bepand words . The fumbled

L: with the cigarette packet which lay on the table
P: with the cigarate facked which lay on the table

L: not wanting to smoke but needing some action
P: not wanting to mote but neding rome action

L: to help her control her feelings . " Come and
P: to help her control her feling . . ' Come and

L: dance , " Doc's cheery voice came as a
P: dance y " Doc's chery voice came as a

L: lifeline and Gay got up quickly , mana-
P: lifelime and boy got up quickly , mana -

L: As he swung her on to the floor Gay saw Gavin
P: As he swuny her on to the flor Gay sow Cavin

L: and Simone go through the doorway that led
P: and Sinome go through the dourmay that led

L: down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a
P: down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a

L: moment in disgust . She was fully aware that Gavin
P: moment in disgust . She wan fuly aware that Casin

L: would make love to the French girl on the sands ,
P: would make love to the French girl on the sands ,

L: and no doubt he would come back soon and
P: and no doust he would came back son and

L: after Simone had left expect her to accept his
P: after Simone had left expect her to acept his

L: kisses on the way back to the hotel .
P: trises on the way back to the hatel .

L: Sentence Database P02-109
P: O Ee Dt4 D02-103

L: " And that 's the man whom you have been eating your
P: " And that 's the man whom you have ten eating yor

L: heart out over ? " Doc nodded towards the door . " You
P: heat out over ? '" Doc noded towards the dor . " You

L: may consider him a man , I would say he was a
P: may consider him a man , I would say he was a

L: mentally adolescent cad . " " Oh , Doc ... " Gay protested
P: mortaly adescent cad . I 1 O4 , Noc . " bay proteasted

L: weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I 've only met him
P: weatly , " you don't know bavin . " " I 'we only met him

L: today but I think I can safely say that I know
P: today but I think I can satels say that I know

L: him a great deal better than you do . "
P: him a great deal beter than you do . "

L: Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up
P: DOc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up

L: Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing
P: Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing

L: yourself away on a chap like that . You 're a
P: yourself away on a chap like that . You've a

L: fine girl , intelligent , and pretty , and I had
P: Pine girl , inteligent , and prety , and I had

L: thought you were sensible too . Don't
P: thought you were sensible to . Don't

L: make a fool of yourself over someone
P: make a fol of yourself over someone

L: who doesn't care two jots for your feelings .
P: who doesn't care two jots for your felings .

L: If he behaves like this now what is your
P: If he behaves like this now what is your

L: married life going to be like ?
P: maried life going to be like ?

L: Hell . " Doc answered for her . " Just Hell . Never able to
P: stld . " Doc answered for her . " fust Wel . Never able to

L: trust him out of your sight and having to put on
P: trust him out of your sight and having to put on

L: a brave face and pretend that you don't mind
P: a bvave face and pretend that you dout mind

L: whenever he flirts with another woman . He will
P: whenever he flints with anther sceman the wil

L: you know , always , and you aren't the type
P: you know , always , and you avent the type

L: who is tough enough to change him . "
P: who is tough encough to change him . "

L: Gay nodded . " I know that you 're right Doc , I think
P: Gay noded . " I knowo that youire right fer , I think

L: now that I do realise that , and in any case , " she added
P: never that I do realive that , and in any care , the aded

L: a little sadly , " if I did change Gavin , he wouldn't
P: a litle td radly , " if I did change Gaien , he wouldint

L: be the same , if you know what I mean . " " You sound
P: be the same , if you knew what I mean . " You rund

L: like Alice in Wonderland , " Doc gently mocked her , " and
P: like Wlice in Moandeoland , " De guntly mocked her ; and

L: I 'm glad you 're beginning to see that you 're wasting
P: I 'm glad youire begining to se that youire warking

L: Now let him go and you won't have to wait
P: Now let him go and you won't have to wait

L: long for the right man for you to come
P: long for the right man for you to come

L: along . If I was thirty years younger and weren't
P: along . If I was thirly years younger and weren't

L: married to the sweetest wife in the world
P: maried to the swetest wife in the world

L: I 'd marry you myself . " Gay laughed , Doc was
P: Id mary you myself . " Cay laughed . Doc was

L: so kind and nice and she hoped that one
P: so kind and nice and she hoped that one

L: day she would be able to see the situation
P: day she would be able to se the situation

L: as it obviously appeared to everyone else .
P: as it obviously apeared to everyone else .

L: Doc asked Lilyan to dance and once
P: Dox ashed Bilegan to dence and once

L: again Gay found herself alone at the table
P: again Gay found herself alone at the tabl

L: feeling self-conscious and awkward , sure that
P: beling self-conscious and awhward , some that

L: people were talking about the way Gavin
P: people were talking about the way Gain

L: was behaving since they had seen them
P: mas behaving since they had sen them

L: dining together . She opened her bag
P: dliving together . The apened he log

L: to get out her compact and saw Grace's
P: to get out hes compact and saw Grace's

L: letter . She drew it out and opened it ,
P: leter . The chew it outs and ropened it ,

L: glad to be able to occupy herself .
P: eglact to be abl to ocury herself .

L: " So glad that you are having such a lovely time , dearie , "
P: " So glad that you are having such a lodly lime , dearie , "

L: it ran . " Your cards are lovely . I rang up Miss Harland
P: it nan . " Youn cands are Povely . I rang up this Masland are

L: and have been over to sit with her father and do what
P: and have ben oven to sit with her fatken and do what

L: I can for him so that she can get out to do her shopping .
P: I can for him so that she can get out to do hen shoping .

L: He 's getting on well but is pretty helpless still with his
P: He 's geting on wel but is protly helples shilf with his

L: No other news except that Elaine is engaged
P: No other news except ( laine is engaged

L: and going to marry a foreigner ... "
P: and goisy to mary a foreignret . . "

L: Gay read the rest of the letter then put
P: bay read the rest of the later put

L: it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged ,
P: it back in her bay , Claine was ongaged ,

L: to the man she had spent so much time
P: to the mas she had spent so much time

L: with at her party . That was why
P: with at her party . That was why

L: Gavin had come back to her .
P: bawin had come back to her .

L: Everything was quite clear now , and to
P: Everyting was quite clear now , and to

L: her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak ,
P: her own susprise bay felt no hearthreak ,

L: rather a sense of relief now that she
P: rather a sense of relief now that she

L: knew why Gavin had come to see
P: knew why Gawin had come to se

L: Because she was second best . The others came back
P: because she was second best . The others came back to

L: to the table , all of them making a fuss of her and at once
P: The table , al of them mating a fuer of her and at over she

L: she felt happier . Gay loved them for their warm sympathy ,
P: felt hapter , bay boved them for their warm sumpaty ,

L: knowing that they were real friends , even if they were new ones .
P: knowing that thes wer real , even it they were new ones

L: " That is a pretty dress , " Lilyan commented , obviously sensing
P: " That is a prety olhes ' , ( itsan comented , abvioudy sening

L: Gay's distress and in a way that Doc , as a man , could not
P: boy's distrer and in a way that Doc , as a mon , could not

L: understand , knowing that Gay was as much ashamed
P: understord , knowing That Goy was as much ashaned

L: for Gavin at the way he was behaving as she
P: For goun at the way he was Bchaving as she

L: " I made it myself , " Gay tried to speak
P: I I made it myself , " blay triad to goeak

L: Diana Wills often sat on the brand
P: Riana Wils often sat on the brand

L: new seat outside the hospital
P: men seat ontside the hospitanl

L: gates and thought vagrant
P: gates and thought vagrant

L: thoughts . At one time she had
P: thonghts . At one time she had

L: watched the workmen constructing
P: wakched the workmen constucking

L: the roundabout , which was
P: the round-abent , which was #ot

L: to put St. John's Casualty Department
P: to put St. John's Casnalty Departmant

L: out of operation - in theory , at
P: out of opuation - in theany , at

L: least . She would think of her-
P: Lcask . She would think of hen-

L: self as a stranger in these parts
P: selk as a stranger in these parts

L: studying these cross-roads . Which
P: studying these crosreads . Which

L: " If I were a tramp I would simply blow a
P: It I were a tramp I moula sicpy blow a

L: feather , " she decided , rather envying the gentle-
P: feather , ' she decided , rather enying the gentle-

L: man of the road his freedom of decision , and
P: man of the road his fredom of decision , and

L: wishing life would sometimes allow serious-minded
P: wishing life would sometines alow serieus-minded

L: women doctors to blow a feather and follow its
P: women dectors to blow a feather and falow its

L: airy directions accordingly . " If I were needing a
P: ary directions acordongly . " If I were neding a

L: job I 'd go to London , of course , " she went on .
P: ob 1d go to London , of course , " she went on .

L: " There are all sorts of wonder-
P: " There are al sorts of wonder-

L: ful jobs in London and I could
P: ful jobs in Condon and I could

L: take my pick , whereas in Yarmouth
P: talve my piclr , wherear in Hamouth

L: one has to know something about fishing
P: one has to know something about fihing

L: and in Liverpool they 'd want sea-farers .
P: and in liverpol they'd want sea-faers .

L: I don't think I 'd go to Edinburgh un-
P: I dlon't thit 1 ' 0 go to Edinburgh in-

L: less I was a Scot and wanting to get
P: le I was a Scot and werting to get

L: home , or perhaps a student studying to
P: home , or perhaps a student study ing to

L: be a doctor , and I already know
P: be a cloctor , and I al ready know

L: She was engaged to Nigel , had been for two years .
P: She was engaged to Niget , had ben for two years .

L: Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get married " ,
P: Sometimes they ralued on the thome of " when we yeu maned ' ,

L: and then all was wonderful , and perhaps it had only been
P: and then al was wonderue , and perhaps it had only ben

L: a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last
P: a seip of the tongue when Niget had waid , only laot

L: evening , " If we get married , old girl , you 'll have to stop
P: evering , ' If we go maned , old gie , you le have to step

L: She couldn't remember what they had been talking about or
P: the couldn't remumber what they had ben talking about in

L: which ' lark ' she would have to stop , only that significant tiny
P: which " lauk ' the would have to tap , only that spificant tey

L: word shouted into her very soul a horn of warning , and
P: ward thanted into her very shat a horm of marning , and

L: with it was coupled a disembodied fragment of information ,
P: with it was coupled a dsumthadied frayment of infruation ,

L: which now took on an ominous significance : Nigel had been
P: which now #tok an ominous syuificance . Ligd had ben

L: seen in Farlingham on an occasion he had sworn he had
P: ren in Farlinghatn on an ocasion he had swn he had

L: been standing in for Luke Parsons at his surgery in
P: ten standing in for luke Partmns at his surgery in

L: Now Nigel had every right to go where he
P: Now Rigel had every right to go where he

L: liked during his off-duty periods
P: liked # during his of-duty periols

L: when she was not free ; this much they had
P: when she was not fre ; this much they had

L: conceded one to the other . They rarely
P: conceded one to the other . They rarely

L: found they were off duty together , and
P: found they were of durty together , and

L: the situation would have been intolerable
P: the situation would have ben intoteradle

L: had there not been some give and take
P: had there not ben given and take

L: about their relationship . So when Nigel
P: about their relationship . So when Miget

L: had told her about taking Luke's
P: had told her about taking Cutre's

L: evening surgery she had said ,
P: evening surgery she had said ,

L: " Bless you ! I hope Luke is suitably grateful , darling . " " Oh , well , "
P: " Bas dou ! I hore lure a suirnsus conterne , Aanine . " " Ot , won ,"

L: he shrugged diffidently , " I like the work . One gets plenty
P: He spaucado oxprisarns . " I LikE The hore . One erers prows

L: of variety and it 's a change . " Nigel was the hospital's
P: of marerd ao itis a crtatct . " Mace was the respime's

L: Junior Medical Officer . " You won't be free about nine , I
P: Jinice mate oficen . " Yon Howir st tot aour nint , I

L: suppose , to meet me for supper somewhere ? " she had
P: Suprort , to mest mo tox suprer domouroOe ? " Atro tho

L: " Hardly likely , my sweet . Luke's surgery goes on for
P: " Hurdly likely , my swet . Luke's surgery goes on for

L: hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even
P: hous . If they get in before eight-thirty , even

L: though they 're standing on one another's toes ,
P: though they 're standing on one another's toes ,

L: I 've got to see 'em . If I am free , though ,
P: I've got to sen . If I am fre , though ,

L: I 'll give you a ring , O.K. ? " O.K. , " she had
P: I'l give you a ving . G. K. ? ' O.K. , " she had

L: replied readily . So how could Nigel have
P: replied readily . So how could Vigel have

L: been at the Load of Trouble roadhouse ,
P: ben at the Load of Trouble road house ,

L: dancing with a blonde at eight-thirty that
P: dancing with a blonde at eight -hity that

L: " No , " she told Phil Gubbins , a junior
P: " No , " she told Phil Gublins , a junior

L: houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you saw ,
P: houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you sow ,

L: my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway .
P: my lad . " , It was Nigel's car , anyway .

L: NUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car
P: NUT 121 . " " He probably loaned his car

L: to somebody , Phil . He 's always doing that . "
P: to nomelody , Phil . He's always doing that . "

L: Young Gubbins shrugged . " I didn't see his
P: Young Rubios shruged . " I didn't se his

L: face , Di , but it certainly looked like
P: face , Di , but it certainly loked like

L: Nigel from the back . D.j. and all .
P: Nigeh from the back . D. j- and al .

L: Of course such as I couldn't afford
P: Of coure such as I couldn't aford

L: to go into the Load of Trouble . "
P: to go into the load of Trouble . "

L: But after that slight slip of the tongue on Nigel's part she had
P: But after that slight sip of the tongue on Liget's past the had

L: realised it was important enough for her to have remembered , and it
P: realised it was important enough for her to have rementered , and it

L: was as though a red mist veiled her usually clear sight and
P: was as though a red mist ceiled her usualy clear sight and

L: made her think there was an abyss immediately ahead .
P: made has thinh there was an alyos imediately ahead .

L: " Nigel , " she had besought him , " you know that evening
P: " Wigeh , ' she had besought him , " you know that evening

L: you took Luke Parson's surgery and there was a woman
P: you tech lake Parson's surgery and there was a woman

L: with a cyst on her ear ... ? "
P: with a cst on hes cas . . ? "

L: " 5Ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kissed her on the
P: 's ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and feised her on the

L: mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge .
P: mouth , an act of devation he didn't over-indulge .

L: " What about it , my sweet ? " " Well , " she laughed
P: ' What about it , my swet ? " " Wel , ' she laughed

L: suddenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid
P: sudenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid

L: Gubbins boy thought he saw you at the Load of Trouble .
P: Bulsins boy thought he saw you at the doad of Trouble .

L: With a blonde , too . Imagine ! " Nigel was frowning . He
P: With a blonde , t0o . Amagine ! " Migel was frowning . He

L: looked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly
P: loked distinguished when he frowmed ; boyishly

L: " Gubbins ? Gubbins ? " he fretted . " Who 's he ? "
P: " Aubins ? Gubins ? " be frethect . " Who's he ? "

L: Though Diana knew the name of every
P: Though Diane haen the name of every

L: member of the staff , distinguished or not ,
P: member of the stalt , ocistinguistert or not

L: Nigel often had to think hard to sort
P: Niget often had to thnink hard to sat

L: them out . " He 's the carrotty lad , isn't he ? "
P: them out . " We 's the conory lace , isu't ke ? "

L: he now demanded . " What was he
P: he now cenancecs . " Whet was he

L: doing at the Load of Trouble ? "
P: cloing at the Loace of Troubl ? "

L: I 'm going with a shooting party . What else can I do
P: In going with a shosting parhy . What else can ( do

L: at this time of year ? I can't ask you up because it 's
P: at this time of year ? I can't ask youp because it 's

L: a strictly stag affair . " " I know . I didn't expect ... " " Well ,
P: a strictly stay ofair " " I know . I didn't expect . . Wel ,

L: don't keep hinting , then . You wish you could
P: don't kep hinting , then . You with you could

L: come with me ; you hope I 'll miss you ; you
P: rome with me ; you hope I l mis you ; your

L: can't imagine the hospital without me for
P: can't imapine the hospital without me for

L: three weeks , etcetera , etcetera ! "
P: thre weks , elcelesa , elcelera ! , )

L: Her figure was small and exquisite , like a schoolgirl's still , and
P: Her figure was smal and exquisite , like a sthrolgint's stil , and

L: he admired her legs , which the male sex were inclined to
P: he admired her legs , which the make rot wore incdined to

L: regard first . " I would mind if you didn't " he told her
P: regord first . " I would mind if you didn't " he told her

L: grimly , and tugged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're
P: girnly , and tuged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're

L: right , pet . I do need this leave . I 'm bad-tempered and
P: right , pet . I do ned this leave . I 'm bod-tempered and

L: broody and going out with brash blondes . I don't deserve
P: brody and going out with hrosh blondes . I don't desive

L: " Darling ! " her voiced caressed him . " Moments like this
P: barling " her voiced caresed him . " Homents like this

L: make all the waiting worth while . When we 're
P: make al the waiting worth while . When we're

L: married we won't have these explosions of emotion ,
P: maried we won't have these explesious of enotay

L: will we ? " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish we
P: wil we ? " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish we

L: were married , Di . Like a patient wishes his operation
P: were marned , Di , like a patrent wohes his operation

L: was over . " Again her laughter trilled . " Marriage
P: was over . " Again her laughtes triled . " Mariage

L: isn't as bad as an operation , Nigel ! "
P: But as lad as an operation . Wiget ! "

L: " Isn't it ? " he rose and smoothed himself
P: " But it ! " he rose and smothed himself

L: down . " Ask any bridegroom-to-be . Anyhow ,
P: down . " Ash any bridegrourtobe . Anybow ,

L: that particular problem isn't looming at
P: that particular problem isuit loming at

L: the moment , thank God ! " Problem ... ?
P: the moment , thaisk God ! " Problem . ?.

L: looming ... ? " Are we discussing a marriage
P: loning . . ? " Are we discusing a mariage

L: or a burial ? " she asked , hardly believing
P: or a burial ? ' she ashed , hardly believing

L: he could be serious . " Surely marrying
P: he could be serious . " Surely marying

L: me isn't going to be all that bad ?
P: me isn't going to be al that bad ?

L: If it is - " she laughed uncertainly - " you can have
P: If it is - " she loughed uncertainly - " you can have

L: your ring back . " She loosened the half-hoop of
P: your ring hock . ' she bosened the haly - hop of

L: diamonds on her left hand third finger and held it
P: Mamands on her by hand third finger and hed it

L: out to him , still playfully . Without a glimmer
P: out to him , shil playpuly . Without a glimer

L: of amusement in his own eyes , however , he took
P: of uniusement in his own eyes , newever , he toh

L: it , looking moodily beyond her . " Perhaps it 's as
P: it , lohing moadily beyond her . " Perhaps it 's as

L: well if you don't wear it for a bit , Di , " he
P: wel if you don't wear it for a bit , oi , " he

L: " But I want it ! " she protested . " It 's my ring . "
P: ' But I want it ceh prodented . It 's my ring . "

L: " You just gave it back to me . " " I
P: " you guest gave it back to me " " )

L: didn't ! I was joking . You know I was
P: didon't ! . I was joting . Jou know ) was

L: joking , Nigel . " " You shouldn't joke
P: poting , migct " " you shouldn't joter

L: about serious things like engagements . "
P: about serious things like engaguments . "

L: " Don't be such a baby ! " They were going
P: " pon't be such a baby ; " They were goings

L: to have an open quarrel
P: to have an open quarmed any

L: any minute , and she knew it .
P: mincl , and she unew it ,

L: Almost in desperation she appealed , " Will you meet
P: Almost in desperation she apealed , " Wil you met

L: me at the gate , four o'clock tomorrow ? " " Why ? " he
P: me at the gate , four ocbock tomorow ? " " Why ? " he

L: enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring
P: enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring

L: me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I 'll see , "
P: me up for tea , of course . I just thouoght . " I il ser ,

L: he told her , and suddenly seized her in an embrace
P: he told her , and sudenly seized her in an embace

L: which really hurt . " Without your ring it 's just like
P: which realy hork . " Without your ring it's just like

L: kissing somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,
P: Lising somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,

L: and kissed her again , somewhat startled to
P: and kised her again , somewhat statled to

L: receive a sharp slap for his pains .
P: receives a shop slap for his pains .

L: " If I were somebody else's girl that 's
P: " If I wore somobody elsie's girl that 's "

L: what you 'd get , " she flashed at him , and
P: what you'd get , ' she flashed at him , and

L: so had left him , on her dignity and not
P: so had Reft him , on her dignity and not

L: seeing the look of admiration and revelation
P: seing the lok of admiration and revelation

L: which had followed her slim young figure
P: which had foflowed her shim young figure

L: out of his sight . " Mine , " Nigel Lester had
P: out of his sight . " Hine ; " Nigel Lestor had

L: decided with a sigh of satisfaction , and
P: decided with a sigh of safisfaction , aed

L: then regarded the ring which he retrieved
P: Ethen regarded the ring which he retrieved

L: from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded ,
P: from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded ,

L: with some bitterness .
P: with some biternos3 .

L: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now
P: Thus had they parted the previous evening and now

L: Diana was trailing up the gravelled drive to the hospital
P: Pian was trailing up the graveled drive to the hospital

L: alone . Of course one couldn't say for certain when a
P: alone . Of course one couldn't say for certain when a

L: doctor would be free during the day ; tea was served
P: doctor would be fre during the day ; tea was seived

L: from four until five-thirty in the residents' common-
P: from four until five-thirh in the residents' comon-

L: room , which proved the elasticity of medical commitments .
P: rom , which proved the elastcity of medical comitments .

L: Something had cropped up which required Nigel's attention ,
P: Something had croped up which requred Niget's atention ,

L: she was convinced , or he would have granted her small request
P: the was convinced cor would have graunted her smal reyrest

L: Sentence Database P03-189
P: intence Datalase p05-159

L: They often had such a rendezvous , for
P: They aften had such a rendegnanes , for

L: there was just time to smoke a cigarette ,
P: there was just time to smoke a cigarethe ,

L: if one walked slowly , between road and
P: if , one walked slanly , betmen road and

L: His mouth hardened , his eyes became
P: This month hardened , his eyes became

L: steely . ' I see . ' Scorn lashed his
P: stely . I se . " Scor lashed his

L: words . ' I wonder you dared trust
P: words . Ihrond you cared trust

L: him to my care . ' ' Nicholas - '
P: him to my care " Wicholas . "

L: ' Well ! At least I know the truth .
P: ' Wel ! At least I know the truth .

L: Truth ! ' His gaze held hers
P: Truth ! Hhis gage held hers

L: masterfully . ' You wanted it so
P: maske-fuly . You wanted it so

L: badly - at any price . I hope
P: badly " at any priace . Thope

L: you are satisfied . '
P: you are satisfied .

L: And as he spoke , the thought
P: And as he rpoke , the thought

L: of Philip lying in the other
P: of Philip lying in the other

L: room filled him with a re-
P: rearm feled thim with a re-

L: vulsion that was homicidal .
P: joulation that washonocidal .

L: Even in that , his hands were
P: Een in that , his lands were

L: tied . He dare not precipitate
P: ted . lecarenot precpitate

L: what might well be another
P: what might wel beanother

L: coronary . And in that second
P: corouary . And in that secod

L: he put back his professional
P: he put ack hiesprofesional

L: mantle , and said with such
P: mantle , and said with such

L: icy politeness , such withdrawn
P: icy polteners , such withchor

L: ' I will leave you the necessary pre-
P: ' I wil leave yortheine cesary pre-

L: scription for the sedatives . You
P: Scriptions for the sedatives for

L: will contact your new doctor
P: wil contact you new do on

L: when you reach your parents'
P: whenyoureach you parents '

L: house . ' She watched him flick
P: House . ' Shewaked himflick

L: his fountain-pen from his
P: his fountainpenfrom his

L: waistcoat pocket , take out
P: waistcoat pocket , take out

L: his # prescription pad , and
P: hi # prescmptiopad , and

L: # scribble on it . Then ,
P: # scrible an it . Then ,

L: with a gesture she knew so well ,
P: with a gesture she knew so wel ,

L: he tore off the leaflet and
P: be tame of the leaflet and

L: ' Good-bye , Sandra , ' he said
P: " God-bye , Sandia , he said

L: with a deadly finality . Watching
P: with a deadly finality . Nathing

L: him go , unable to speak , she
P: hingo , unableto-speah , she

L: felt that part of her was leaving
P: felt that part of hen was leaving

L: him . She couldn't hate him ...
P: him . She couldu't hake him . .

L: If only he would have con-
P: If only he would have con-

L: fided in her , given some expla-
P: ficded her , givensome engla-

L: nation . Now there was no-
P: nation . Now there was no-

L: thing - not even friendship .
P: thing -not evenfoiendship .

L: She went back to Philip . But
P: the went back to Phily . But

L: all she could hear were Nicholas's
P: al she could hear were Wicholar's

L: words : ' I love you - oh , you
P: words : I love you-oh , you

L: know that well enough . '
P: know that wel enough . '

L: Love . She revolted against
P: dove . She revolted agains

L: the word . Nicholas , Philip ...
P: the word . Micholas , Philip .

L: where was happiness , or
P: where washapiners , or

L: peace of mind ? Philip put out
P: peace of mind ? Philips put out

L: a hand and grasped hers .
P: a hand and grasped hers .

L: He needed her . She would find
P: the neded here . the would find

L: solace in that fact at least .
P: solance in that fact at leat .

L: She had her truth . How much had built
P: The had hes truth . Hoso mach had beielt

L: up from that first ideal , and how
P: up from that first udeal , and how

L: little joy , or satisfaction , it had
P: litle joy , or satisfactionjit had

L: given her . ' I 'm sorry , darling . '
P: fiven her . Insory derlay . '

L: He looked nervous . It had been
P: Hhe loeked , ne If had ben

L: hell lying there , knowing she was
P: hel lying there , knoveny shewa ,

L: talking to Nicholas and wondering
P: talkins to Wicholes and wonding

L: what they were saying . Sandra
P: what they were saying . Lndra

L: said instinctively : ' I told him
P: said unstinctively : " Itold him

L: I knew he was responsible for
P: I knew hes was responsable for

L: Her eyes darkened in torment . ' Are
P: Heseyes darkened intorment . Are

L: you sure that she was telling the truth ? '
P: you sure that she wasteling thetrut . "

L: ' Good heavens , darling , why on earth
P: ' God heavens , darling , why onearth

L: should she lie ? Besides , it wasn't just
P: shoueld she lie ? Beside , it wasu't jil

L: her word . There was enough evidence ,
P: her word . There was enagh evidence ,

L: no matter how one might want to
P: no mater how one might want to

L: disbelieve the facts . ' Elation
P: dis belien the facts . ' Elation

L: touched him after the cold wind
P: touched him after the cold wind

L: of suspense . ' It will be interesting
P: of suspense . It wil be interetry

L: to see what comes out at the inquest .
P: to se what comes out at the inqurt

L: What his story will be . I reckon
P: What his story wil be . I recton

L: he 'll confine himself to the nervous
P: he'l confue himself to the nervous

L: origin of her recent illness . His notes
P: origin of her recent ilnes . His notes

L: will be truthful , but what he leaves out
P: wil be truthful , but what he leaves out

L: will matter most . ' Strange how just
P: wil mater most . ' Strauge how just

L: then Philip was so certain that Nicholas
P: then Philip waso certain that Wicholes

L: would never betray him . He loved
P: would never betray him . He loved

L: Sandra too deeply to ruin her
P: fandra to to deply to ruin her

L: future happiness . Had ever circum-
P: future hagpiners . Had evercireun-

L: stances conspired so cunningly ?
P: stances conpiedso canmingly

L: Philip's spirits soared .
P: Philip's pinit soered .

L: He was better ; he had made a
P: He was beter , he had made a

L: miraculous recovery and Sandra would
P: Muraculour recovery and lendra would

L: soon be his wife . The Devil , he thought ,
P: seon batins wife The Purcil , he tought ,

L: certainly looked after his own .
P: certainly loked after his own

L: Something in Sandra's attitude struck
P: Something unSandra's atitude struch
