L: brain.
P: ie

L: From this review then it appears, that
P: Fromthies reie thenit opiars , that

L: in paving the way to the consideration of
P: in poing he way to the conpode ratin r

L: municipal Law, our Author has spent
P: onuniepalad , our Autor hois pert

L: supposed
P: sapoueld

L: much time in explaining the nature &
P: muct time ir exlaining po,ratuoreo

L: Properties of Laws which do not exist &
P: & artes ot Laws which soe notexiste ,

L: in misapplying those which do: & therefore,
P: in anisopling thore which do : & herefores

L: that the best thing which a Student of the
P: tat the bost thing whict Shndeut of he

L: Law can do is to forget all that our Author
P: "aw ce rdo is to foyet ale tal orlatior .

L: has hitherto advanced.
P: has Usadamued

L: 25 73
P: aw 2

L: Note ( ) to p.
P: note l t per

L: Sydney New South Wales 20th May 1799
P: t gt " re Cuth eal c sa, 1780 .

L: The fatigue to which the Governor of this territory must
P: The fatigue to which the Govurneor of this Seritory masf

L: submitt, both mental and corporeal, is far beyond any idea
P: scbmidh both mental and exporeal , is far begond any efeca-

L: you can have of the nature of his duty rendering such fatigue
P: you can have of the nature of his duty rendering sigh fuligue

L: necessary in the Commander in Chief.
P: necesary in the Comander in hres .

L: My former knowledge and acquaintance with this Country
P: M formver knowledge and acquaintance with this Cuntr

L: encouraged me in a hope, which however has in some respects
P: encouraged me n a Lope , which houever has in ofre respect

L: proved delusive: that I should with ease to myself and with
P: proved delusiver hat I shoult , with case to myolf and with

L: proper effect and advantage to the public, have been able to
P: propor tefect and aduantage to the public , hnese able to

L: not
P: not

L: manage all the duties of my office - But I had been long
P: manage al the dabies of my ofic _ But I bit ben lng

L: entered upon it, before I was awakened from that dream of
P: entored upon it , before I was awakned from that dram of

L: comfort and satisfaction, the prospect of which I had so vainly
P: comfort and satisfaction the prospuet of whicls i had so vainly

L: indulged! The seeds of the vexations which had so disappointed
P: indulged f the seds of the vereations which flad so disopainted

L: me, had been sown for a very considerable time; and, being of
P: me , had ben sown for a very considisabl time , and , being of

L: rather a prolific nature amongst such people, had gained so
P: rather of a prolifice natuire amcnys sulf pepte , had gained so

L: much strength. that it will require immense labour to grab them
P: -much strength , that it wil regure ifuense labour to grul them

L: up by the root. I have persisted in my attempt to that end, and
P: up by the roct , I have pursisded nifsfy atempt to that ind , and

L: mean not to change my system; which, be assured, from being cal-
P: mean not to change my sytem ] oftich , be asured , from being al-

L: -culated to lay restraints upon every species of vice and immorality,
P: -cuclated to bey restraints upon fers spocies of inxe & imorality ,

L: cannot, amongst such character be a very popular one; that however
P: canot , amongst such charactef , be a vizy popular one ; that however

L: will be a matter of no immediate concern to me; if I succeed only
P: wil be a mater of no ifonediate concimn to mey thif I siced ony,

L: in a small degree, to check the growing profligacy and abandoned
P: in a smal degre , to ofek the groving profligacy and abandored

L: turn of the lower classes of the people.
P: tow of the Cowver clats of the people .

L: This is a good Country, and will do well: but its progress
P: This is a goed sfoits , and wil do wel : bust its prognes

L: in improvement would be considerable hastened, could Government
P: in improvement itit be considerably hastened , culd Government

L: be prevailed upon not to overstock us with the worst description
P: be prevaild tf ifsns to overstal as with the wort dscrption

L: of characters: for, whilst the mass of the people continue to be of
P: of charaite lof , whils the mast of the people continine to be of

L: that class, our difficulties will ever be very considerable: the
P: that closifte dificulties wil ever be very considerable : the

L: industrious and well disposed become a continual prey to the
P: indusficus and wel dispoed beome a continucal pry o the

L: idle and worthless.
P: if wnd t oithles .

L: person, or body of men who are invested with
P: person , or bony of men whs are invested with

L: the power of making laws: for that Sovereignty
P: the prwr of making laws , for that Sovercignty

L: & legislature
P: SEnlitue3

L: are convertible terms. So that, our definition
P: -are convertible terms . To that , our definition

L: receives little light from the addition of these
P: receives litle light from the adition of these .

L: words: it amounting only to this, that law
P: words : it amounting only to this , that l aw

L: is a rule of action prescribed by him, who
P: is a rule of ackon preperibed by himwho

L: prescribes it.
P: prescribes it .

L: ["It is also, says our Author, a rule, command-
P: [ whis also , says ou r Author , a rulecormand

L: "ing what is right, and forbidding what is
P: " ingrhal s right , and forbiding what is

L: wrong." [If You ask our author, what he means
P: " urong ufyouash our ourthor , what he means

L: by w right, and wrong, he will tell You, that
P: by wnright , and wrong , he wil tel , fouthat

L: is right which the law declares to be right,
P: is right which the law decelares to be right ,

L: and that is wrong which the law pronounces
P: and that is wrong which the law kromounces

L: to be wrong. So that, here again no new light
P: to be wrong So that , here ag ai uonewlight

L: is
P: is

L: 107
P: 4

L: 16
P: 16

L: C
P: C

L: Frauds relative to the Coin.
P: Frauds relative to the Coin .

L: entirely cut off.
P: entorely cut of

L: On this account it comes to be the more material to
P: On this acount it comes to be the more material to

L: search out by a circumstantial description the several pre=
P: search out by a circumstantial description the several pre=

L: operations
P: aperatrion

L: =liminary Acts which a man has occasion to perform, and
P: : liminary urt which a man has ocasion to perform , and

L: the several preliminary situations it is necessary for him
P: the several preliminary situations it is necesary for him

L: to put himself into, before he can be in a condition to
P: to put himself into , before he can be in a condition to

L: operations
P: perationd

L: perform the act intrinsically obnoxious. Of these acts
P: perform the act intrinsicaly obnoxious . Of these acto

L: and situations there may be many which may present
P: and situations there may be many which may present

L: a greater surface; as it were, to observation ( and from
P: a greater surface as it were to observation( and from

L: thence to testimony) than the act itself of Coining: and
P: thence to testimony ) than the act itself of Coining : and

L: this even when taken separately; much more when they
P: this even when taken separately ; much more when they

L: come to be added altogether. The more ample then and
P: come to be aded altogether . The more ample then and

L: circumstantial the catalogue is that can be given of these
P: circumstantial the catalogue is that can be given of these

L: preliminary offences, the better chance there is of effecting
P: proliminary ofences , the beter chance there is of efecting

L: the purpose of preventing the principal one to which they
P: the purpose of preventing the principal one to which bhey

L: are introductory.
P: are itioductony .

L: The following string of provisions are calculated in
P: The folowing string of provisions are calculated in

L: some degree to answer that design. They are taken with
P: some degre to answer that design . They are taken with

L: some
P: some

L: 2.
P: 2 .

L: C
P: C

L: Of Matrimonial Desertion.
P: of Matuinonal dsatin.

L: It will be necessary to define what shall be deemed
P: It wil be necesary to define what shal be demed

L: Desertion, distinguishing it from the case of lawful Absence;
P: Desertion , distinguishing it from the case of lawful Absence ;

L: and what steps shall be taken for giving notice.
P: and what steps shal be taken for giving Notice .

L: Let certain methods be established whereby the Husband
P: Let certain methods be established whereby the Husband

L: and the Wife may be enabled and obliged to correspond with
P: and the thife may be enabled and obliged to covespond with

L: one another at stated intervals: and let a failure on either part
P: one another at stated intervals : and let a failure on either part

L: for a certain time be deemed presumptive evidence of death or
P: for a certain time be demed presumptive evidence of death or

L: this
P: thes

L: desertion. Within the dominions of the state they might be manag=
P: desertion . Within the dominions of the state theyr might be maneg

L: =ed in the manner mentioned in the Book of Procedure. Tit.
P: : ed in the maner mentiohed in the Bok of Procedure . Sit =

L: As to foreigners, upon their coming into the country
P: As to Foreigners , upon their coming into the counbry

L: let them be obliged to declare upon oath whether they are married
P: let them be oliged to dectare upon wath whether they are manies

L: or single; and if single whether Bachelors or Spinsters, Widowers
P: or single : and if single whether Brcbelors or Iinsters , Whowens

L: or Widows. Of these declarations let Registers be kept, of which,
P: or Widows . Of these decturations let tegisters be kept , of which ,

L: previous to their being married, copies should be required to be
P: previous to their being maried , copies should be required to be

L: produced. If married, certificates of the death of the Wife or
P: produced . If maried , crtificates of the death of the Wife or

L: Husband. At present these important enquiries are left to the
P: Husband . At present these important enquries are left to the

L: uncertain prudence of individuals. The declarations above men=
P: uncertain predence of individuals . The declarations above mur:

L: :tioned should be accompanied with some details respecting their
P: : tined should be acompanied with some details rupeting thein

L: birth, parentage and last abode; such as may lead to detection
P: birth parentage and last abode , such as may ed to detection

L: in
P: in

L: 2
P: 2

L: upon the abovementioned terms he would engage
P: upon the abovementioned terms he would engage

L: as follows_
P: as folow

L: 1st. To furnish the prisoners with a constant supply
P: 2 . To furnish the prisoners with a constant suply-

L: of wholesome food, not limited in quantity, but ade-
P: of wholesome fod , not limited in quantity , but ade-

L: -quate to each man's desires.
P: -efuiale to eack mans desires .

L: 2nd. To keep them clad in state of lightness and
P: 2 To kep the m clad in a state of tightnes and

L: neatness, superior to what is usual among the lower
P: reatnes , superior to what isusual among the lower

L: classes or even in the improved prisons.
P: clases or even in the improved prisons .

L: 3rd. To keep them supplyed with separate beds and
P: 3rd To krep them supled with separate beds and

L: bedding, competent to their situation, and in a state of
P: bedeting competent to their situction , and in a state of

L: cleanliness scarce any where conjoined with liberty.
P: cleantines scarce any where confoined with liberty

L: 4th. To insure to them a sufficient supply of artificial
P: 1th . To insure to them a suficient suply of artificieat

L: warmth and light, whenever the season renders it ne-
P: warnth and light , whenever the season renders it ne-

L: -cessary, and thereby preserve them from being obli-
P: -cesary , and thereby preserve them from being obli-

L: -ged as in other places, to desist from their work, as
P: -ged as in other places , to desist from their work , as

L: well as from suffering from the inclemency of the
P: wel as from sufering from the inclemency of the

L: weather.
P: nte .

L: 5th. To keep constantly from them, in conformity to
P: 5th To kep constantly from them , in conformity to

L: the practice so happily received, every kind of strong
P: the practice so haply received , every kind of strony

L: and spirituous liquor, unless where ordered in the
P: and spirituous lqpuor , unles where ordered in the

L: way of medicine.
P: way of medine .

L: 6th. To maintain them in a state of inviolable though
P: th To maintain them in a state of invidlable though

L: mitigated seclusion, in small assorted companies,
P: -mitigated seclusion , in smal asored companies ,

L: without any of those opportunities of promiscuous
P: without any of those oportanities of promiseuous

L: association, which in other improved prisons disturb
P: asociation , which in other improved prisons distarl

L: if not destroy whatever good effect can have been expected
P: if not destroy whatever godefect can have ben espeaned

L: from solitude. 7th. To
P: hom solue egthet

L: C
P: C

L: 2.
P: 2.

L: Offences against Justice.
P: Ofences against Justice .

L: particulars have concurred, in that case Justice cannot
P: particulars have concured , in that case Sustice canot

L: but have been properly administered. In any case let
P: but haue ben properly administered . In any case let=

L: any of them have failed, in that case Justice cannot
P: any of them have fuiled , in that case Justice canot

L: have been properly administered. There cannot therefore
P: hare ben properly Edministered . There canot therefore

L: impediment to
P: irpedianend to

L: be any other offered against Justice than what have
P: be any other afesaragainrst Justice than what have

L: one of the tendencies just mentioned. Not that this deter=
P: one of the tendencies just mentioned , Bot that this deter=

L: :minateness of the nature of these offences excludes
P: : minatenes of the nature of these Ofences excludes

L: the intervention of improvement from this branch of Le=
P: the intervention of improvement from this tranch of de:

L: :gislation: for as long as the Legislator can devise any
P: :gislation : for as long as the Legislator can devise , any

L: new expedient that gives an additional chance for the
P: necocopedient hat givies an dilional chance for the

L: prescribes the observance of
P: mresenites the ofrervance of

L: attainment of these ends and it accordingly,
P: altainment of these ends ans sat it acodingly ,

L: the omission of it will become an accession to the List
P: the omision of it wil become an ocesion to the List

L: of such offences. As
P: of such ofences A

L: Note
P: Note

L: begins earlier. The business of a civil Judge extends to the in=
P: begins carlier . The busines of a civil Judge extenids to the in=

L: forming of those who have occasion to be informed whether
P: forming of those who have ocasion to be informed whether

L: were they to perform such or such acts in future such acts
P: were they to perfsum such or such acts in fature such acts

L: would be offences: A man may commit an offence in
P: would be ofences : t man may comit an ofence in

L: either of two ways, by usurping advantages that do not
P: either of two ways , by usurping advantages that do not

L: belong to him; or by declining burthens that do belong to
P: belong to him ; or by declining burthens that do belong to

L: him.
P: himn .

L: There are two ways in which a man may be said
P: There are two ways in which a man may be gaid

L: to [apply] for such information: an active way and a passive: by
P: to aply ) for such information : an actiue way and a papsive be

L: Economy
P: sw

L: 7
P: 5

L: II Collins
P: E ces

L: which so alarmed and terrified them, that they instantly fled,
P: " which so alarmed and terifued them , that they instantly fleds

L: leaving behind them their spears, &c. and about 20 bushels of
P: " laving bekind them their spears , To , and about io bushls of

L: Indian-corn which they had stolen.
P: "Indian- corn which they had stolen .

L: "It was distressing to observe that every endeavour to
P: "It was distresing to observe , that every endeavous to

L: "civilize these people proved fruitless. Although they lived among
P: " cilige these people proved friucitlgs . Ashough they lived among

L: "the inhabitants of the different settlements, were kindly treated,
P: " the inhabrtaents of the diferent setlements , were kindly treated ,

L: "fed, and often cloathed, yet they were never found to profess the
P: " fid , and often cloathed , yet they were never found to poses the

L: "smallest degree of gratitude for such favours. Even Even Ben-nil-long
P: " smalest dgre of gratituide for such favours . Cos Even enublong

L: "was as destitute of this quality as the most ignorant of his coun-
P: " was as destitute of this rquabty as the most gnorant of hie crim:

L: -"trymen. "It is an extraordinary fact, that even their children, who
P: " srymen , It is an extraordinary fact , that even their childsen , who

L: "had been bred among the white people, and who, from being
P: " had ben bred among the whle people , and who from being

L: "accustomed to follow their manner of living, might have been
P: " acustomed to folonr their mauner of living , might have ben

L: "supposed to ill relish the life of their parents, when grown up,
P: " suprsed to il relish the lofs of their parents , when grown ip ,

L: "have quitted their comfortable abodes, females as well as males,
P: " have gunded their comfortable abodes , fumales as wel as males ,

L: "and taken to the same savage mode of living, where the sup-
P: and taken to the same savaly mode of lving , whene the sup-

L: -"ply "of food was often precarious, their comforts not to be called
P: " pty of ford was often precarious , their comfored not to be calond

L: "such, and their lives perpetually in danger. As a proof of the little
P: , Such , and their lives peopetably in darger . As a prof of the lithe

L: "personal safety which they enjoyed, a young young woman, the
P: " personal safty which they eigoged , a gaony young womon thi

L: "wife of a man named Ye-ra-ni-be , both of whom had been
P: " sis of a moe named y _ ia- mibe , both of whom had ben

L: "brought up in the settlement from their childhood, was cruelly
P: " brought up in the setlement from theis chuldlived , was eruily

L: "murdered at the brickfields by her husband, assisted by another
P: musdered at the brict fulds by hes husbend , asisted by another

L: "native, Cole-be , who first beat her dreadfully about the head (the
P: " native , Col be , who first beat hes dreadfuly about the head f the

L: "common mode of chastising their women), and then put an end to
P: " comon mode of chastising their womon) , and thein put an opd to

L: "her existence by driving a spear through her heart.
P: " her oxistence by driving a spear through his Heart .

L: "When spoken to or censured for robbing the maize grounds,
P: " Wthen spoden to or censured for oebling the maipes grounds ,

L: "these people, to be revenged, were accustomed to assemble in large
P: " these people , to be revenged , were acustomed to asemble in large

L: "bodies, burn the homes of the settlers if they stood in lonely situa-
P: " brdices , bumn the howses of the setlers of they stod in lonely situa-

L: -"tions, "and frequently attempted to take their lives; yet they were
P: " tiows , and frequentely aktempted to taker their lives ; yet they were

L: "seldom refused a live corn when they were asked for it. It was
P: " seldom refused a lite corn when they were asked for it . It was

L: "imagined that they were stimulated to this destructive conduct by
P: " imagined that they were stimulated to this destructive onduct by

L: "some run-away convicts who were known to be among them at
P: " tome nenaway convicts ako were known to be among theim at

L: "the time of their committing these depravations. In order to get
P: " the time of their comiting these depsedatons , he oater to get:

L: "possession of these pests, a proclamation was issued, calling on
P: " posesion of then pests , a proclamation was isfeised ; culing on

L: "them by name to surrender themselves within 14 days, declaring
P: " them by name to surender themselives toithin to days , diclasing

L: "them outlaws if they refused, and requiring the inhabitants, as
P: " them octlaws if they refused , and requising the inhabitants , as

L: "they valued the peace and good order of the settlement, and their
P: "they valued the peace and god onder of the setlamert , and then

L: "own security, to assist in apprehending and bringing them to
P: " own security , to asint in aprehending and bringing them to

L: "justice. The governor also signified his determination, if any of the
P: " justice . The governor also sigriged his determintation , if any of the

L: natives
P: sisties

L: 3
P: 2

L: (3
P: ( 1

L: parties whether or no Quasi-Trial shall have
P: pactos , whother or no ldas i , Sual shal hace-

L: place: if any one says yes, he appoints day &
P: fhace : if any ove sacp -yes , he aporit day o

L: hour: earlier or ulterior time, if applied for, are
P: fowr : sarken or lterwor tie , if asples for ace

L: granted by him or refused: if Quasi Trial be
P: gited to thisn ar sufised , if san thal le

L: not applied for, the provisional decrees, from
P: nt apf Juod ] for , the trovsional decres , from

L: provisional, become absolute.
P: provisional , Excomce abselite .

L: Art. 8. The Quasi Trial is performed at
P: Ait 3 . The Eseas Aiol is perfomed , at

L: one Sitting or if more be necessary at divers sittings:
P: one Jiting or if mwore be uesicy al mvues suloy

L: but unless for special and extraordinary reason as-
P: but suls for sfrecral and rtias tvary oason gft

L: -signed, it is gone through at one sitting, unless
P: ya s gane lione at ong sithing whit

L: the whole time employable at that one Sitting
P: sh I hat bins oulogute at that one Stlied

L: has been consumed before the suit has thus been
P: las boew conseuied before the suil has thus hewn

L: rendered ripe for definitive decrees.
P: cerdoned mipe for n definaitine dere .

L: Art. 9. At this recapitulatory examination
P: Ant 9 It this recapitulatory examiation

L: no evidence is receivable, that was not exhibited
P: hs eiduse is receivable , ihat was inot eshibited

L: in the course of the original examination.
P: io the course of the oniguial xamiation .

L: Art. 10. At this Quasi Trial may be re-
P: A tita Aft this duace Tuial may be ne-

L: -argued and reconsidered or for the first time ar-
P: angund aod exco uredeced or for the firgl time ar-

L: gued and considered, the question of law.
P: qwd auid so ndetired , the question of law

L: Art. 11. The incidental occasional on
P: Art It. he t odauital carioundou

L: which a hearing before a Quasi Jury has place
P: wh if Ccarns b fore s luase Juy has prlace-

L: are those on which Appeal for Quasi misdecision
P: cre Liose on Lul Apfeal for dcasi aisbeansion

L: may
P: araily

L: 2.
P: 2.

L: C
P: C

L: Of Simple Personal Injuries.
P: Of Simple Personal Injuries .

L: (a)
P: ( a )

L: drug or to expose himself to circumstances injurious to his health .
P: dug or to expose himself to circumstances injurious to his health

L: [(D) Uneasiness] It matters not how slight the contact + is by
P: [ ) Uneasines ] ] It maters not how slight the Contact , is by

L: which the uneasiness is produced: the touch however slight may
P: which the uneasines is puoduced : the touch ho wever slight may=

L: be sufficient to produce uneasiness in a man if it be against his
P: be sufcient to produce uneasines in a man if it be against his

L: (E) Farther
P: Fi ) Tuather

L: Will.
P: wiA .

L: Note
P: Note

L: (a)
P: la )

L: 1. For the cases in which a man may happen to be con=
P: 1 . For the cases in which a man may hapen to be con=

L: :cerned in occasioning bodily pain or uneasiness in another by
P: : cerned in ocasioning bodily pain or uneasines in another by

L: permanent practices, such as the carrying on of dangerous, offen=
P: fermanent practices , such as the carying on of dangerous , ofen:

L: :sive, or unwholesome, occupations. See
P: sive , or uniholesome ocupations . Se

L: 1. Laws relative to Householders in general.
P: 1 . Feuw relative to Housholters in general .

L: 2. Laws relative to the several sorts of Manufactorers or Shop=
P: 2 :. Laws relative to the several serts of Manefactorers or Resp=

L: Keepers whose trades are apt to occasion danger or annoyance; such
P: Repers whose trades are apt to ocasion danger or anoyance ; uch=

L: as Gun powder Manufactorers, Turpentine Distillers, Manufactorers
P: as fun powder Manusctorers . Surpentine histilers , Nansctorers

L: of Oil of Vitriol, Tanners, Tallow Chandlers, Brasiers, Pewterers &c.
P: of id of ritrisl , Taners , Salow Chandlers , Brasier , Huwterers Aot

L: &c. In all these cases the damage, if any, is commonly either unintentio=
P: &e . In al these cases the damage , f any , is comonly either unintentio

L: :nal, or at most not directly but only indirectly intentional. See Introd.
P: nal , or at most not diretly but onloy indirectly intentional Se Introd .

L: Ch. Of Intention and Consciousness.
P: Ch . Of Intention and bonsciousnes .

L: For the Cases in which a Man may happen to be concerned
P: For the Cases in which a Man may hapen to be conceried

L: in producing bodily pain or uneasiness by selling unwholesome provisions,
P: in producing bodily pain or uneasines by seling unwholesome provisions ,

L: See Laws concerning the several Trades relative to the several sorts of Provisions.
P: :She Lases concerning the sevenl Frades rebative tothe several sorts of roifions=

L: 25. _ The Police-Offices to be open for business from
P: 25 . _ _ The Polica Ofics to be open for busines from

L: nine, in the morning, till nine, at night.
P: mione , in the motning , tit rine , at hight .

L: 26. _ The present number of Runners, or Constables,
P: 26 . Thre presert orcember of Runars , or Constab les ,

L: to the Police-Offices, are very insufficient.
P: to the Police - Ofices , ase vary insuficient .

L: 27. _ No soldier should ever appear in the streets with:
P: 27 _ N6o Soldic should evar apear in the strats with

L: :out his uniform.
P: out his uniesoto .

L: 28. _ The penalty on forfeiture of recognizances, in
P: 2 . The penalty on forliture of recomnizances , in,

L: case of non-prosecution, should be considerably
P: case of on prosecition , shouldy be considerably

L: increased, and the payment thereof be enforced.
P: inerased , and the payment theseof enforced .

L: 29. _ The Expences allowed to Prosecutors & Witnesses
P: 9 . _ The axpences alowed bo Prseutoro & itn es

L: from distant parts, are not sufficiently liberal; on
P: from distant parts , ase not s Sticiently lberaly, on

L: which account many Delinquents evade justice.
P: which acount manry Salinquent wade ustic .

L: 30. _ A Barrister and sufficient number of Atornies
P: 23 . _ A pavishes und suficrent numper of sMonies

L: should be appointed to prosecute for the Crown, in
P: should be apointed to roseute for the Erown ,in

L: criminal cases; and to conduct indictments for
P: criminal cuses ; and to conduct Endictments for

L: such persons as are too poor to undertake them
P: such persons as ase to poror to undertake them

L: on their own account.
P: on their own acort.

L: 31. _ The City of London ought to build a House
P: 2t . _ The lity of London ouglt to build a Ponse

L: of Correction; where all the London-Prisoners, who
P: of Corotion , whese al the London Prisoners , who

L: under
P: mnatut .

L: are sentence of temporary imprisonment, should
P: apeintentence of temporary imprisonment , stf ould

L: be kept and compelled to work. No prisoners, under
P: be kept and compeled to wor h No prisoner , under

L: fines, or temporary confinement, should be permitted
P: fines , or temporars conpnerment , should be perited

L: to remain in Newgate, or the Compters, after sen:
P: fo som-ain in I uge , or the Complers , after sea-

L: :tence has been once passed.
P: -tire has hen orce pased .

L: 32. _ Executions are of no utility, either for punishing
P: 2 . _ Excutions are of no wality , aither for pun ishing

L: or deterring: _ if, however, they must be inflicted,
P: or datenvings _ if howevers they must be inflected ,

L: they should be done, as speedily as possible, after
P: they shoult be done , as spedity as posible , fter

L: passing sentence. Solitary confinement & labour
P: paking dentence . Alelany confnement & labour

L: 11
P: 1

L: the whole produce and profit of their labour, and the
P: the whole produce and profit of their labour , and the

L: same to retain subject only to the allowances to be
P: same to retain subject only to the alowances to be

L: made to such prisoners in manner herein after
P: made to such prisoners in maner herein after

L: mentioned.
P: mentionied

L: Art.7. Each Prisoner shall be supplied every day
P: Art7 . Each Prisoner shal be suplied every day

L: with wholesome food, as much as he shall choose:
P: with whole some fod , as muh as he shal chose .

L: but the quality in other respects is expressly reser-
P: but the quality in other respects is expresly re ser-

L: -ved to the choice of the said Jeremy Bentham and
P: -ve to the choie of the said Jeremy Bentham an

L: his Successors as a means of engaging the said Pri-
P: his Sucesors as a means of engaging the said Pri-

L: -soners without the spur of corporal severities to set
P: -soner' s without the spur of corpone seveidies to sot

L: their hands to labour.
P: thevi hands to laber .

L: a
P: 4 .

L: Art.8. Each prisoner shall be kept properly clo thed,
P: Art. 5 . Euch prisoner shal be kept propertly elithed ,

L: and to that purpose shall be supplied at least once a
P: and to that purpose shal be suplies at least once a-

L: year with a compleat suit of such cloaths as shall
P: year with a compleat suit of such cloaths as shal

L: be allotted, and with a clean shirt at least twice in
P: be aloted , and with a clean shirt at least twice in

L: every week.
P: enong weak .

L: Art.9. Each prisoner shall be constantly suppli-
P: Art.9 . Each prisonce shal be constantle suple

L: -ed with a separate bed and bedding of sufficient
P: ed with a separate led and beding of suficient

L: warmth, and kept in a state of constant cleanliness
P: warmth , and kept in a state of constant cleandines

L: clean sheeting or blanketing being supplied to each
P: clean shating or blankcting being suplied to each

L: at least once in every month.
P: at last once in every mont

L: Art.10. The Prison shall at all proper seasons
P: Art . 10 . The Prison shal at al proper seasons

L: and in ever part thereof be sufficiently warmed &
P: and in every part thereof be suficiently warmed &

L: lighted.
P: lufhed .

L: Art.11. No prisoner shall be suffered to have access
P: Art . 1 . No prisoner shal be sufered to have aces

L: to any kind of spirituous or fermented liquor, except
P: to any kind of spiritious or fermented liquor , exc,p-

L: in as far as the same shall have been prescribed
P: in as far as the same shal have ben preseribed ,

L: in
P: in

L: 18.
P: 18 .

L: G
P: 

L: Simple Corporal Injuries
P: Timple Ofeda aConenl Egrses

L: constitute some degree of excuse extenuation.
P: constilute some degre of exeiars extenustion .

L: 2. It matters not whether the Mis-supposal in this case
P: 2 . It maters not whether the Mis suposal in this case

L: the
P: the

L: regards the matter of fact or the matter of law. It regards
P: regards the mater of fact or mater of law . It regards

L: the matter of fact where you suppose some damage to
P: the mater of fact where you supose some damage to

L: have been done you by your adversary, whereas in fact
P: have ben done you by your adveysary , whereas in fact=

L: he has done you no such damage. It regards the mat=
P: he has done you no such damage . It regards the mat=

L: :ter of law, where you suppose him to have no right
P: : ter of law , where you supose him to have no right

L: to do you such damage, whereas in truth he had a
P: to do you such damage , whereas in truth he had a

L: General Extenuation
P: Geral byo tnuatyn

L: right. See Excuse II. Ignorance of the Law.
P: right Sae Exace Inh Ignorance of the Law :

L: [(B1 Injury] It matters not to whom the injury in ques=
P: [ ( ) Irjura ] It maters not to whom the injury in queo

L: =tion immediately relates, whether
P: tion imediately relales whether .

L: 1. To the party himself who is provoked.
P: 1 . To the party himself who is provohed ,

L: 2. To any one who is particularly dear to him.
P: 2 . To any one who is particularly dear to him .

L: 3. To the Public: For the interests of the Public ought
P: 3 . To the Pubtic : for the interests of the Public ought

L: to be dear to every man.
P: to be dear to every man .

L: 4. Even to the party himself by whom the provocation is
P: n . Ewen to the party himself by whom the provecation is

L: given: for every man ought to be dear to every man.
P: given : for every man aught to be dean to every man .

L: Accordingly if you think you observe any person giving
P: Acordingly if you think you obverve any person giving

L: into any kind of vice, and, from the pain which it gives
P: into any kind of wice , and , from the pain which it gives

L: you to think of his behaviour, are provoked to strike
P: you to think of his behaviour ; ae provohed to strike

L: him, it is a less offence than if you struck him in the
P: him , it is a les ofence than if you struck him in the

L: course
P: caurte

L: 16
P: 1

L: default of such Devisee or Devisees then by the Executor or
P: default of such Devise or Dovises then by the Excutor or-

L: Executors Administrator or Administrators of , or person or
P: Exceutors Administrator or Audministrators of , or person or

L: persons intitled to take out Administration to, the personal
P: persons intitled to take out Administration to , the personal

L: Estate of such Survivor as aforesaid , untill due satisfaction
P: Estate of such Survivor as aforesaid , until due satisfaction

L: shall have been made to the Estate of such Survivor as well
P: shal have ben made to the Estate of such Survivor as wel

L: for the value of the said Buildings and other irremoveable
P: for the value of the said Buildings and other iremoveable

L: improvements of every kind made in or upon the said
P: improvements of every hind made in or upon the said

L: Land or any part thereof as for the moveable stock remain-
P: Land or any part thereof as for the moveable stork remain

L: -ing thereon and occupied therewith : And in default of such
P: -ing thereon and ocupied therewith : And in default of such

L: Feoffee so appointed , such seizin and possession as aforesaid
P: Feofe , so apointed , such sezin and posesion as aforesaid

L: shall remain and continue in such legal representatives or
P: shal remain and continue in such legal representedives or

L: persons intitled to take out Administration as aforesaid : And
P: persons intitled to take out Administration as aforesaid : Ano

L: all such allowances as under the terms of this agreement were
P: al such alowances as under the terms of this agrement werl-

L: made or to have been made to such Survivor , for or on account
P: made or to have ben made to such Survivor , for or on acount-

L: of the maintenance of the said Establishment , shall during the
P: of the maintenance of the said Establishment , shal during the

L: same period continue to be made unto the person or persons
P: same pertod continue to be made unto the person or persons

L: so seized and possessed as aforesaid : the value of such Build-
P: so seized and posesed as aforesaid : the value of such Build-

L: -ings improvements and stock to be settled by two referees, one
P: ings improvements and stock to be setitled by two referes , am

L: to be appointed by the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury or
P: to be apointed by the Lord Comisioners of the Sreasury ox-

L: [their Successors the other by the person or persons so seized and
P: their Sucesors the other by the person or persons so seized and

L: possessed or intitled so to be as aforesaid , with power to appoint
P: peosesed or intited so to be as aforesaid , with power to apoint-

L: an umpire.
P: an umpie .

L: 9
P: 3

L: and building one or more Penitentiary House or Houses
P: and building one or more Penitentiary House or Houses

L: upon the said Ground in such manner and under
P: upon the said Ground mn such maner and under

L: and for such considerations, terms, conditions, powers,
P: and for such considerations , terms : conditions , powers ,

L: limitations and restrictions as the said Commissioners
P: -timitations and restrictions as the said Comisioners

L: shall deem necessary and expedient, and shall cause
P: shal dem necesary and expectient , and shal cause

L: to be inserted in such Contract or Contracts such law-
P: to be inserited in such Contract or Contrads such law-

L: -ful clauses, covenants and agreements, as shall be re-
P: fel clalnls , covenants and agrements , as shal be re-

L: -quisite to enforce the execution of the same according-
P: quisite to enfore the exeaution of the same acording

L: -ly, and within a time to be limited And Whereas
P: -ly , and within a time to be limited And Whereas

L: in and by an instrument dated this day the said
P: in and by an instrument dated this day the said

L: Piece of Ground has been fixed upon accordingly and
P: Siece of Ground has ben fixed upon acordingly and

L: the said Jeremy Bentham appointed sole Feoffee for
P: the said Jeremy Bentham apointed sole deofle for

L: the purpose of purchasing the same And Whereas
P: the purpose of purchasing the same And Whereas

L: he the said Jeremy Bentham hath proposed at his
P: he the said Jeremy Bentham hath proposed at his

L: own expence but upon such terms and conditions and
P: own expence but upon such terms and conditions and

L: for such considerations as are herein after mentioned,
P: for such considerations as are herein after mentioned ,

L: to erect and adapt to the purpose aforesaid a build-
P: to ered and adapt to the purpose aforesaid a brild-

L: -ing of a new and peculiar nature invented by
P: -ing of a new and peculiar nature imvented by

L: Samuel Bentham Knight of the Military Order of
P: Samuel Bentham hnight of the Military erder of

L: St George of Russia and Brigadier General in
P: It George of Rusic and Brigadier General in

L: her Imperial Majesty's Service, Brother of the said
P: her Imperial Majesty ' s Service , Brother of the said

L: Jeremy Bentham under the name of a Panopticon
P: Jeremy Bentham under the name of a Panoption

L: or Inspection House in and by means of which said
P: or Inspection House in and by means of which said

L: Building any number of persons may in as far as
P: Building any number of persons may in as far as

L: it shall be thought proper be kept under the in-
P: it shal be thought proper be kept under the in-

L: -spection of any person or number of persons in
P: -spection of any person or number of persons in

L: charge
P: Marge

L: 6
P: 6

L: extension of the Colony Plan, or adoption of some
P: cxtension of the Colony Plan , or acoption of some

L: other mode of disposing of Convicts) perhaps not above
P: other mode of disposing of Convicts ) perhaps not alve

L: 100 are received into this 100,000 House. What is
P: 10 are received inh thes 10,0 House . What is

L: the consequence? that for each Convict House rent
P: the consequence ? that for each Convict House rent

L: alone (5000 at 5 per Cent) comes to 50 a year.
P: -dove ( 50 at o per Cent ) comes to 150 a year .

L: On Mr Bentham's plan it comes to 9 a year, and
P: On Mr Bentham ' s plan it comes to 9 a year , and

L: that for two years only.
P: that for to years only .

L: A plain proof that all idea of refunding was
P: A plain prof that al udea of refunding was

L: out of the question, or rather that it was perfectly
P: out of the question , or rather that it was perfectly

L: understood that nothing should be refunded, is, that
P: understod that nothing should be refunded , s , that

L: Mr Bentham was, for months together, with the
P: Mr Bentham was , for months together , with the

L: privit of Government and at the recommendation of
P: privity of Goverment and at the recomendation of

L: Government, in treaty on his own account with the
P: Government , in treaty on his own acount with the

L: Proprietors for the purchase of the Land: Government
P: Proprictors for the purchase of the Land: Government

L: having agreed to advance the purchase money in that
P: having agred to advance the purchase money in that

L: case to Mr Bentham for a short time. The Pro-
P: case to Mr Bentham for a short time . The Pro-

L: -prietors not complying; an Act of Parliament for
P: -prictors not complying , an Act of Parliament for

L: this and other purposes was thought necessary: and
P: this and other purposes was thought necesary : and

L: upon that occasion it was, that it was notified to
P: upon that ocusion it was , that it was notified to

L: Mr Bentham, as the determination of Government,
P: Mr Bentham , as the determination of Government ,

L: that the Ground should be purchased, not on Mr
P: that the Ground should be purehased , not on Mr

L: Bentham's account, but on the account of Government:
P: Bentham ' s acount , but on the acount of Government

L: but that due satisfaction should be made to Mr
P: but that due satifaction should be made to Mr. _

L: Bentham and his Representatives. No reason was
P: Bentham and his Repreaentatives . No reason was

L: assigned for this departure: Mr Bentham's consent to it
P: asigned for this departure Mr Bentham ' s consent to it

L: was not called for: it was not given: he was not heard
P: was not caled for : it was not given : he was not heard

L: upon
P: afeS

L: C
P: C

L: 15.
P: 15 .

L: Offences against the external Security of the State.
P: Ofences against the external Security of the State .

L: is commonly distinguished by the name Piracy.
P: is comonly distinguished by the name of Piracy

L: When an Offence against Property originates in a
P: When an Ofence against Properly originates in a

L: motive of rapacity and not in motives of resentment the
P: motive of rapacity and not in motives of resentment the

L: property of one person will answer the purpose as well
P: propeity of one person wil answer the purpose as wel

L: as another . If therefore the primary mischief of such an Of:
P: as another . If therefore the primary mischief of such an Of=

L: :fence be confined to a single state, the secondary mischief,
P: : fence be confined to a single state , the secondary mischief ,

L: however, extends itself to all states the members of which
P: however extends itself to al states the members of which

L: are likely to come in the offender's way. An act of Piracy is
P: are likely to come in the ofender' s way . An act of Pracy is

L: therefore commonly looked upon as an act of hostility against
P: therefore comonly loked upon as an act of hositily against

L: mankind in general . The least therefore which is expected
P: mankind in general . The least therefore which is efpected

L: from the State of which the Pirate is a member is that
P: from the State of which the Pirate is a member is that

L: it should acquiesce in his being punished : If it happens
P: it should acquesce in his being punished : If it papens

L: to have any particular means in its hands of punishing
P: to have any particular means in its hands of punishing

L: him , it may also be expected to take an active part in pu=
P: him , it may also be expected to take an active part in pu=

L: :nishing him : as likewise in punishing any accomplices
P: : nishing him ; as likewise in punishing any acomplices

L: he may have ; and in taking any other expedients that
P: he may have ; and in taking any other cxpesients that

L: may occur for preventing the offence . This holds good more
P: may ocur for preventing the ofence . This holds god more

L: particularly with regard to accomplices ; because their
P: particularly with regard to auomplies : becouse thein

L: residence will frequently be upon land within the domi=
P: residence wil frequently be upon land within the domie=

L: while
P: while

L: :nions of a particular state which his excursions are
P: : nions of a particular state , wxkich his excursions ane

L: carried on upon that element which is common to man=
P: caried on upon that clement which is comon to man=

L: =kind.
P: bends .

L: 2
P: 2

L: Upon the abovementioned terms he would engage
P: Upor the abovementioned terms he would engage

L: as follows_
P: as folows .

L: 1.st To furnish the prisoners with a constant supply
P: f0t To furnish the prisoners with a constant suply

L: of wholesome food, not limited in quantity, but a-
P: of wholesome fod , not limited in quantity , but a-

L: -dequate to each man's desires.
P: dequate to each mans s desires _

L: 2. To keep them clad in a state of lightness & neat-
P: 2 . To kep them clad in a state of lightnes & neal-

L: -ness, superior to what is usual among the lower clas-
P: -nes , superior to what is usual among the lower clas-

L: -ses or even in the improved prisons.
P: sis oreven in the improved prisons .

L: 3rd To keep them supplied with separate beds and
P: 2 To kep them suplied with separate beds and

L: bedding, competent to their situation, and in a state
P: beding , competent to their situation , and in a state

L: of cleanliness scarce any where conjoined with liberty.
P: of clcanlines scarce any where conyoined with liberty.

L: 4th To insure to them a sufficient supply of artificial
P: 1th To insure to them a suficient suply of artificial

L: warmth and light, whenever the season renders it
P: warnth and light , whenever the season renders it

L: necessary, and thereby preserve them from being
P: necesary , and thereby preserve them from being

L: obliged as in other places, to desist from their work,
P: obliged as in other places , to desist from their work ,

L: as well as from suffering from the inclemency of
P: as wel as from sufering from the inclemency of

L: the weather.
P: the watfer .

L: 5.th To keep constantly from them, in conformity to the
P: 4 . To kep constaently from them , in conformity to the

L: practice so happily received, every kind of strong &
P: practice so hapily received , every kind of strng

L: spirituous liquor, unless where ordered in the way of
P: spirituous liquor , unles where ondered in the way of

L: medicine.
P: maline .

L: 6th To maintain them in a state of inviolable
P: lt To maintain them in a state of invidlable

L: though mitigated seclusion, in small assorted com-
P: though miligated seclusion , in smal asorted com-

L: panies, without any of those opportunities of pro
P: -panies , without any of those oportunities of pro

L: -miscuous association, which in other improved pri-
P: -miscuors asociation , which in other improved pri-

L: -sons disturb if not destroy whatever good effect can
P: -sons distarl if not destroy whatever god efect can

L: have been expected from solitude.
P: have ben expected from solitude .

L: 7. To
P: . Tc .

L: 62
P: 6 .

L: THEFT
P: THEFT .

L: wherefrom this Consciousness might be infer'd were
P: wherefrom this Consiousnes might be inferd s were

L: yet themselves reducible to some one or other of
P: yet themselves reducible to some one or other of

L: those 4.
P: those t .

L: found
P: fond

L: But I had Cause at length to abandon
P: But I Lias Reause at length to abandon

L: the pursuit, in the Persuasion that this
P: the pursuit in the Persuasion that this

L: Consciousness might by infer'd with equal
P: Consciousnes might be inferd with equal

L: Satisfaction & Certainty from any of the respective
P: Satisfaction & Gertainty from any of the respective

L: individual Circumstances directly as thro'
P: individual Pircumstances directhy as thro '

L: the Medium of any of those specific Heads: the
P: the Medium of any of those specific Heads : the

L: Establishment of them as the Subjects of distinct
P: stablishment of them as the Subjects of distinct

L: Questions to the Jury would therefore have no Use; and
P: Questions to the Jury would therefore have no Use ; and

L: it might have this Inconvenience, that the
P: it might have this Inconvenience , that the

L: be
P: 4e

L: Distinction between them would not in every Care
P: Distinction betwen them sould not in every lase

L: so clear, as that the Jury could concur in affirming
P: so clear , as that the Jury could concur in eofirming

L: the Existence of any one in particular and disaffirming
P: the Existence of any one in particular and dit asfimn

L: that of the others: hence if the Interrogatories
P: ing that of the others : hence if the Interogatone

L: concerning each were put separately, tho' some one
P: concerning each were put separately , tho some ine

L: or other of these Circumstances unquestionably had
P: orn othes of thene Cirsumstances unquestionably had

L: Existence, yet not knowing precisely which, they
P: Eaistence , yet not knowing precisely which , they

L: would think themselves obliged to disaffirm it of
P: would thiake themselves obliged to disastirm it 5

L: them all.
P: them at .

L: For
P: dor

L: My Lords, Whitehall 14 Oct. 1799.
P: A ry Whitelal t Act : 19

L: Mr King having laid before me a Letter from
P: Mr Thing huving laid befire mer a Leter Yrom

L: Mr Long of the 27th ulto, desiring, by command of
P: Mor Long of the ilt dising , by comand of

L: your Lordships, to be apprized of the number of Con-
P: youe dships : to to aprved of the umber of Co-

L: -victs, which the Panopticon proposed to be erected by
P: -rits , whuch the Panopticon proposed to be erited . by

L: Mr Bentham, is intended to accommodate. I have
P: Mr Bentham , is intonded to acomodate , I have

L: examined the Acts of the 19th & 34th of his present
P: excaning the Acts of the 19I a of his pricnrts

L: Majesty, relative to the building of Penitentiary Houses
P: sajirty , tatene o the buding of Penitantiary Poncer

L: for confining and employing in hard labour, Persons
P: for confiaing and employing in Lard libour , Persons

L: convicted of transportable and other Crimes.
P: consicted of tansportable and othire Trimves .

L: I understand the object of these Acts to be, that
P: I wndentaend the object of thise BActs to lor , that

L: such Penitentiary Houses should be used principally
P: such Puntutiary Worer should Ie and priam patey

L: as receptacles for such transportable Convicts as the
P: is rcuptaites for sih promrpotable Couricts as the

L: several Gaols of the respective Counties cannot contain,
P: swircl Gaots of the orsputiod Countiles canot contin

L: from the time of their receiving sentence, till an
P: from the tiome of theve receiving ,tentense , tilo an

L: opportunity may offer for their being transported.
P: " potionls may ofer for their being praueported -

L: With respect to the probably number of transport-
P: 1th spert to the protable numler of tramspost-

L: -able Convicts _
P: a nril _

L: no safer rule can be adopted, than by taking the
P: io sepr nlo con be adigited , than by taking the

L: greatest number of the four last years of Peace:
P: patert number of the foer last ears of Have ;

L: though it may increase, yet the increase of live
P: trugh it mary incruase , get the cneriose of he

L: Stock use will probably more than counter balance the
P: Stock de wetl protoliy nor the coistibelance the

L: difference.]
P: heserun .

L: will probably more than counterbalance the difference.
P: sil pobaly mon than counterbelance the difermce

L: 3
P: 3

L: P. 126. September 1790. "In order to encourage as far as possible
P: P 146 . Sphember 1798 ." In onder to encourage as for as posible

L: "the rearing of swine in the colony, as well as of every other
P: " the rearing of suine in the colony , as wel as of wvery other

L: "kind of live stock, a circumstance that must not only prove
P: " hind of Live stock , a circunstance that must not sit only prove

L: "a great benefit to the public, but be also highly to the advantage
P: " a great benefit to the public , but be ao highly to the advantaor

L: "of those who devoted a part of their time to this useful purpose,
P: " of those who devoted a part of their time to this useful purposy

L: "and which, from the advanced state of the private farmers, might
P: " and which , from the adances state of the private farmed , might

L: "now be done with far less trouble and expence than formerly, the
P: " non be done with far les trouble and expence thaen formorty , the

L: "settlers and others were informed, that when any individual should
P: " setlers and otherse were informed , that when any individual shod

L: "have prepared a number of such animals fit for the public
P: " have prepared a number of such aniniols fit for thes pubtie

L: "store, they might make the same known to the commissary,
P: "store , they might make the same known to the comisary ,

L: "who, in order to prevent any unnecessary expence to the feeder,
P: " who , in order to prevent any unecesary expence to the faber ,

L: "would get give immediate notice of the day and place when
P: " would goe give imediale notue of the day and place when

L: "and where he would receive them. He was also at liberty to
P: " and hwhere he would recave them . He was also at liberty to

L: "enter into an agreement or contract for a certain length of time,
P: " enter into an agrement or contract for a certain lngth of time ,

L: "and on such conditions as should be agreed, with any person who
P: " and on such conditions as should be agrted , with any person who

L: "would engage to furnish the public store either at Sydney, Parra-
P: " woule engages to furnish the public stire either at Myoney , Parsa_

L: -"matta, or the Hawkesbury, with any certain quantity at stated
P: " mate , or the Hawkeslony , with any certain quantety at states

L: "periods."
P: parod I .

L: P. 196 January 1799. "That he [the Governor] might ascertain what
P: P . 10o fanuary 179 " that he The Covernot might ascertain ahact

L: "quantity of grain he had to depend on, all those who cultivated
P: " gantity of grain he had to dspened an , al thos who enltumated

L: "ground were directed to give in by a certain time a return of the
P: " grused wre directed to gove in by a cestain timwe a return of the

L: "wheat and other grain in their possession."
P: " wheat and other grain in their posesion ? _

L: P. 196. January 1799. "Wheat at this time bore a high price
P: P 19o January 179 Wheat at this time boe a high prices

L: "in Norfolk Island, the settlers who had raised refusing to sell it,
P: " in Nof l 6 I hand , the setler who had raised refusing to setl it ,

L: "on account of the high wages, at less than fifteen shillings per
P: " on acount of the high wages , at les than fofticn shelerys per

L: "bushel."
P: brishil .

L: C
P: C

L: 10.
P: 15 .

L: Offences against the external Security of the State.
P: Ofences against the external Security of the State

L: naturally under the several titles which are taken from
P: naturacly under the several titles which are taken from-

L: the several different ways in which the party injured
P: the several diferent ways in which the party injured

L: either
P: ether

L: may be affected by them. They are offences against person,
P: may be afected by them . They are ofences against person ,

L: or or
P: Sr

L: offences against property, offences against reputation, and
P: ofences against property , ofences against reputation . and

L: so forth, as the case may be.
P: so forth , as the case mas be .

L: If the place in which the offence was committed be
P: If the place in which the ofence was comited be

L: within the dominions of a third state it is from such third
P: withen the dominions of a third state it is from such thind

L: power that the state of which the party injured is a
P: power that the state of which the party injured is a

L: member will expect satisfaction in the first instance. If
P: member wil expect salisfaction in the first instance If

L: however it be out of its power to give satisfaction the
P: however it be out of its power to give satisfaction the

L: property as well as person of the offender being out of
P: property as wel as person of the ofender being out of

L: its reach, the injured state may naturally enough be dis=
P: its reach , the injured state may naturaly anough be dis=

L: :posed to resort to that of which the offender is a mem=
P: : posed to resort to that of which the ofender is a mem :

L: :ber. It may perhaps expect the same punishment to
P: : ber . It may perhaps expect the same punishment to

L: be inflicted on him as would be inflicted on him for
P: be inflected on him as would be inflicted on hi for

L: an offence of the same kind committed to the prejudice
P: an ofence of the same kind comited to the prejudica

L: of a fellow member; it will hardly expect more.
P: of a felow member ; it wil hardly expect more .

L: If the place be a vacant spot not within the domi=
P: If the place be a vacant spot not within the doni=

L: :nions of any state, the state of which the offender is a mem=
P: : nions of any state , the state of which the ofender is a men:

L: :ber will naturally be that to which the injured state
P: : ber wil naturaly be that to which the injured state

L: will resort in the first instance. It may however resort
P: wil resort in the frst instance . It may hawever resor t

L: in
P: in

L: 23.
P: 2io

L: C
P: C

L: Corporal Injuries
P: Crtirl desures

L: Simple Of Extenuations.
P: Sunte Tfe tlinundend Fhertinun thenw

L: employed; nor shall it be considered whether a person revolving
P: employed : nor shal it be considered whether a person revolsing

L: the circumstances at his leisure could or could not have
P: the circumstances at his leisure could or could not have

L: thought of a cheaper means of repelling the attack but whether
P: thought of a choaper means of repeling the atack but whethier

L: any such cheaper means did actually occur to the party at
P: any such cheaper means did actualy oceur to the party at

L: the time.
P: the Liw .

L: Exposition.
P: Eapoution .

L: [(A) Les mischief] As if a man were suddenly to assault
P: [ ( A ) Les mischiefs ] As if a man were sudenty to asault

L: You with a stick at a time that a stout stick and an iron
P: You with a stick at a time that a sbout stich and an vron

L: bar of the same size were both lying within your reach:
P: bar of the same sie were both Gying within your reach :

L: where upon snatching up the iron bar you strike him in
P: where upon salehing up the iron bar you stike him in

L: such a manner as to give him dangerous bruise or kill
P: such a maner as to give him a dangerous bnuise or hil

L: him. In such case unless it appears that you deliberately took
P: him . In such case unles it apears that gou deiberately lok

L: up the iron bar in preference to the stick intending there=
P: up the iron bar in preference to the stick intending thene=

L: :with to kill him or hurt him more than was necessary, it
P: : with to hil him or burt him more than was norsary , it

L: shall still be accounted justifiable self-defence
P: shal stil be acounted justifiable selfdefence

L: [(B) Uncertain efficacy] As if in the case just mentioned it hap=
P: [ ( E ) Unertain ofican ] o if in the case just mentiones it his .

L: :pened that you were much weaker than the assailant; inso=
P: : pened that you were much weaker than the asailant : inso=

L: :much that it would have been doubtful whether with the less
P: : much that it would hove ben doultful whether with the los

L: powerful weapon of the two, you could have effectually defend=
P: powerful weapon of the two , yoe could have efectualy de find .

L: :ed Yourself.
P: : ed Yourself .

L: may depend venture to depend on? If after pay-
P: may depord venture to depend on 1 If after pay-

L: to this Lawyer
P: to this ofatvyer

L: ing four Guineas for four Volumes of his Truths,
P: -ing fou Guineas for four Wolemes of his Fruths ,

L: I pay a couple to another, for any one that I
P: I pay a couple to another , for any one that I

L: self-
P: suf _

L: may want, will his be all of the same sort?
P: may want , wil his be alt of the same dnv

L: 70
P: 4

L: True it is that about 65 pages after, under
P: True it is that about to pages after , under

L: another Title if I happen to fall upon it, I may
P: another Title if I hapen to fal upon it I may

L: see, that by her Husbands License "which he
P: el , that by her Hus bands License which he

L: frequently covenants with her Friends to allow
P: prequently covenants with her hiends to atlow

L: her a Wife may make a Will: or rather as
P: hir a Wife may make a Wil : o rathon as

L: the Author I may also see, that "if she has
P: the Arthor I may also se , that if she shas

L: any Pinmoney or separate Maintenance" of which
P: any Pinmoncy or separate Maintenance of which

L: I have no other Intimation than from this
P: I have no other Intimation than from this

L: Passage and which that part of the Work which
P: Pasage and which that part of the Work which

L: is appropriated particularly to the subject of her
P: is apropriated particularly to the Subject of her

L: Power assures me, as far as it is in the power of
P: Powers asurer me , as far as it is in the power of

L: general Words to assure, me that she cannot have,
P: general Words to asure me that she canot have ,

L: such and such Consequences will follow. But
P: such and such Consequences wil folow . But-

L: is not a Man to be put into Possession of the Law
P: is not a Man to be putients Isresion of the Law

L: on any single Point but upon Terms [and those not
P: on any sigle Point but upon Terms (and those not

L: declared] of his reading the whole Book? And
P: dulnred ) of his reading the whole Bosk ? And

L: in a voluminous Treatise on a very extensive &
P: in a voluminous Teatise on a very extensive &

L: divided
P: divded

L: 9
P: 3

L: (4
P: C

L: Art. II. VII. Appeal warranting function. A certain
P: Art . 1 . 2I . Opel vananting functions . A certain

L: class of penal cases there is, in relation to which by
P: chas of senal case there is , in relction to which by

L: reason of the concurrence of certain circumstances, it
P: treasou of thes concumence of cortaie excuistanies o

L: may happen that in the eyes of the Legislature the
P: way hapie hat in the ngt of the Legulature the

L: certain evil composed of delay, vexation and expence
P: centain coil compored of Dchy iecation and expence

L: to parties injured, might perhaps be not improperly
P: to partes ngurded , might furlaps he not enfore soaly

L: regarded as outweighing the possible chance of effec
P: regladed as suhueghing the pasible chauce of ofsec-

L: tive mis-decision to the prejudice of the defendant
P: ti insdesioion to the prouadics of the difundont

L: on the part of the Immediate Judicatory, in which
P: on the purt of the Jumnidiate Juiscntiny is whch

L: case it may perhaps be deemed fit by the Le-
P: care to mnay puh ope te decint ft Iit the cha-

L: -gislature, in the framing of the Penal Code, to
P: :gistative ins this feaming of the seual hide , to

L: lay down as the general rule, that in these easy
P: (fn Dowe at thes guera cule , that is these ay

L: Appeal shall not have place. Offences of indigent
P: opeal thal not have place . Ofences of nidigent

L: depredation, or say of predatory indigence, is the
P: dopnidation , or nay of findotary enudigencer , is the

L: appellation which may serve for a general indication
P: apelation which may seme for a geveral t Ddecation

L: of the class of offences here in view. As to the enu-
P: of the las of ofeuces here in sim As to the come-

L: meration of these offences, See Procedure Code tit.
P: uanction of there ofsces , Se thondure Dde tit .

L: Quasi Trial
P: ues thial

L: Art. 12. Among two circumstances, by the consider-
P: Art . 1c . Renoiny thuse circumstanes , by the scmdide-

L: -ation of which, this opinion may on the part of the
P: -chion of whicle , Li ofunian may on the pant of the

L: Legislature be perhaps produced are the following
P: Legislatue be perlas poueduced ore the folowig

L: 1
P: 1

L: 38
P: a43

L: Note
P: Na0

L: (a)The distinction is material: for as fixed income comes
P: [ ( ) The districtions is Eatria : fr at faed income cones

L: in in masses at the beginning of a period and professional &c
P: in in mases at the leginsiny of a pisiod and proesional &s

L: income in driblets day by day during the course of the same
P: intome in drublets day by day sduring the course of the cime

L: period it will be found in calculation that on equal annual
P: -penod it wil be found in calculation that on equal arinucal

L: amounts there will be twice as much to dispose of in any such
P: amounpt there wil be sured as much to dispose of im any inot

L: way as that in question in the former case as in the latter.
P: way as thast in question in the farmoer case as in the Pater

L: 48
P: 40

L: C
P: C

L: Of Frauds relative to the Coin.
P: Of Frauds relative to the Coin .

L: Quest. III. Why Coins of different Metal are put u=
P: Quest . 1I : Wthy Coins of diferent Nretal are put u-

L: :pon the same footing.
P: :pon the same foting .

L: Reasons.
P: Resons .

L: At first sight it may appear hard that a fraud upon
P: A first sight it may apear hard that a frued upon

L: an Article of so small a value as the Copper Coin should be
P: an Article of so smal a value as the Coper Coin should be

L: punished as severely as a fraud upon one of so high a value
P: punished as severely , as a fraud upon one of so high a value

L: as the Silver or even the Gold Coin, since the profit that
P: as the Silver or even the God Coin , since the profit that

L: may be made by the falsifying any piece of the less precious
P: may be made by the falsifging any piece of the les precious

L: metal is not near so great as that which may be made
P: metal is not near so great as that which may be made

L: by the falsifying of the more precious metal. But the case
P: by the falsifying of the more precious metal . But the case

L: here is that the mischief is not to be estimated from the ef=
P: here is that the mischief is not to be estinated from the ef=

L: :fects of a single Act but from the effects of the Habit. Now
P: : fects of a single Act but from the efects of the Stabit . ow-

L: when the Habit is taken into the Account the one practice
P: when the Habit is taken into the Acount the one practice

L: does not seem to demand in any considerable degree a great=
P: does not sem to demand in any considerable degre a great=

L: :er punishment than the other. Where the profit upon a
P: : er punishment then the other . Where the profit upon a

L: single piece is the greatest, the difficulty of getting it off is
P: single piece is the greatest , the dificulty of geting it of is

L: the greatest. The profit upon a base shilling may, it is
P: the greatest . The profit upon a base shiling may , it is

L: true be 24 times as great (or perhaps more) as the profit
P: :true be Ats times as great ( or perhaps more ; as the profit

L: upon
P: upon

L: 7 8
P: 38

L: C
P: C

L: Defraudment by false standards
P: Defraudment false Sanduards

L: particular regulations can be of service will need to be different
P: particulir regulations can be of servfice wil ned to be diferent

L: according to the local circumstances of the different countries in
P: acordios to the loeal circumstances of the diferent countries in

L: which the several articles happen to be in use. Mean while any
P: which the peveral articies hapen ti ke in use . Mean while ang

L: frauds that can be committed in relation to any of those articles
P: fraudr that can be comited in relarion to any of those fticles

L: will not go unpunished: since they will all come under the general
P: wil not go enpunished : since they wilh al come under the gine

L: head of Sharping. ordinary defraudment.
P: :al head of ielar ordinary be fonudment

L: Instructions to the Legislator
P: Efnchons to the adgefater

L: The notion of a false standard supposes the existence
P: 3o . The notion of a false standard suposes the existence

L: of a genuine one. To establish these genuine ones for every pur:
P: of a genuine one . To establish these genuine ones for every pur=

L: :pose and in every convenient place is the business of the Sove:
P: : pose and in every convencent pluce is the busines of the Sove:

L: :reign. To give these institutions their full effect and render the
P: reign . To give these institutions their ful efect and render the

L: occasions of punishing the offence less frequent the following
P: ocusions of punishing the ofence les frequent the folawing

L: expedients might be of use in the character of
P: expidients might be of ase in the cherasle : of asisenoentive

L: preventive measures. might be of use.
P: pxcventiue measures migt be gh utu .

L: I. To establish public standards of each kind in the Metro:
P: 2 . To establish public standares of cach hind in the metro

L: :polis of every judicial district. See B. Of Procedure.
P: : polid of every jodical district . In Ph . Of Prvcedncs .

L: Tit. Of Jurisdiction.
P: Tet . Of Pursdiction .

L: II. To permit none to be used by any trader but what are
P: 2 . To permit none to be used by any tader but what are

L: stamped by authority.
P: stmpet by authorety .

L: III. To cause frequent visitations to be made by certain offi:
P: 2 . To cause frequent visilations to be made by certain ofe=

L: :cers at unexpected times (which, to ensure their being unexpected,
P: : cers at unexpected times which , to ensure their being unexpected .

L: may be determined by lot) in the Shops of the several Tradesmen;
P: may be determined by lot ) in the Shops of the several Puadesmen

L: such
P: such

L: 3
P: 3

L: C
P: C

L: Of State-Tumults.
P: Of Sate - Tcmults .

L: of distant danger: nor whether by fear of danger to his per=
P: of distant danger : nor whether by fear of dunger to his per=

L: :son, his property or his authority.
P: : son , his property or to his authority .

L: A State Tumult is a Misdemeanour.
P: A State Tumul is a misdemianour .

L: For damage sustained by parties injured in the
P: For damage sustuined by parties injured in the

L: course of a tumult all offenders concerned in the same tumult
P: course of a tumult al ofenders concerned in the same hemul

L: are liable, whether it can or cannot be proved that they act
P: are liable , whether it can or canot be proved that they act

L: in concert.
P: in concert .

L: All illegal acts are to be deemed parts of the Same
P: Al ilegal acts are to be demed parts of the Same:

L: tumult which are committed on the same occasion, or not
P: tumilt which are comited on the same ocasion , ar not

L: more than [Ten] miles distance from each other in point
P: more than Fen ] miles distance from each other in point

L: of place, nor more than [Ten] days distance from each other
P: of place , nor more than [ Fon ] dayes distance from each other

L: in point of time.
P: in point of lime .

L: Reasons.
P: Reasons .

L: 1. This makes it the interest of all persons concerned in the
P: 1 . This makes it the interest of al persons concernd in the

L: same tumult to sit a watch upon each other, and do what
P: same tumuld to sit a wath upon each other and so what

L: is in their power to moderate each others violence. By this
P: is in their power to moderate each others viotence By this

L: means it is subservient to the purpose of prevention.
P: means it is subserwrent to the purpose of preveation .

L: 2. It also gives a much better chance to parties injured
P: 2 . It also gives a much beter chance to parties injured

L: of obtaining compleat compensation than they would other=
P: of obtaining compleat compensation than they wouls other

L: :wise have: and making the damage fall upon the au=
P: : wise have : and making the damage fal upon the ua

L: :thors.
P: : thons .

L: 3. It facilitates the detection of offenders; by making it
P: 3 . It facilitales the detection of ofenders ; by making it

L: the
P: tho

L: 44
P: 46

L: few drops from it to save this worthy gentleman.
P: few drops from it to save this worthy gentleman .

L: If it be in the power of virtue to give a claim to
P: If it be in the power of irtue to give a clain to

L: mercy, has he not virtue to comm command it?
P: merey , has he not virtue to woro comand it ?

L: This faith, his hope, his charity, do they not all
P: His faith , his hope , his charty , do they not al

L: center in great persons?
P: center in great persons ? _

L: Speak to him then, my Lord, once more: _
P: speak to him then , myLord , ouce more : _

L: say to him any thing that will make him easy.
P: say to him any thing that wil make him casy

L: Show him how right and wrong depend upon existing
P: Thew him haw rigft and wrong depend upon existing

L: circumstances: _ whisper to him that all this Ma-
P: circumstances : _ whisper to him that al this Ma-

L: -chiavelism for throwing prisoners upon Counties
P: "chaselismn for throw ing prisoners upon Counties

L: was a mere make-believe: satisfy him that nothing
P: was a mere maken lelieve : _ satis fy him that nothing

L: can be a matter of more profound indifference to
P: can be a mater of more profosned indiference to

L: any body than it is to great persons in what Jal
P: any bidy than it it to great persons in what fust-

L: Jail, or Hulk, or improved Colony, and in what numbers,
P: jail , or Hulk , or improved Colony , and in what number

L: human creatures starve or poison one another, so that
P: human creaturves starve or poison one another , to that

L: there be not a "Panopticon for them to be sent to": _
P: there be not a Tumptico for them to be senpto " ? _

L: remind him, that in the place he has in view, no
P: remind him , that in the place he has in aiew ,ns

L: offence can, by any Jail or number of Jails, improved
P: ofence can , by any Jail or numbur of J auls , improved

L: or unimproved, be ever given to Noble Lords, whose
P: or unimproved , be ever given to hoble Lirds , whose

L: veto, when they are pleased to pronounce it, is so
P: veta , when they are pleased to promounce it , is to

L: fatal to Acts of Parliament: _ assure him, that neither
P: fatal to Acts of Parliament : , apsure him , that neither

L: by the great person, nor by any other, is the purse
P: by the one great person , nor by any other , is the purse

L: ever taken out of the hands of Parliament, unless for
P: wver taken out of the hands of Parliament , unles for

L: a particular purpose, and to oblige a friend: certify
P: a particular purpose , and to oblige a friend : certifs

L: to him, that measures of this sort are disposed of, mo-
P: to him , that measures of this sort are dispoted of , mo-

L: -ment after moment, sometimes upon one principle,
P: -ment after moment , sometimes upon one principle ,

L: sometimes upon opposite principles, as the cove
P: sometimnes upon oposite principles , as the conse

L: convenience of each moment presents them to great
P: convenience of each moment presents them to great

L: minds: explain to him, that when persons are approved of,
P: - evind a cxplain to him , that when persons are aprivity ,

L: & the purpose of the moment is to be seve served;
P: To the spurpon of the moment is to be se sevriled

L: there
P: there

L: 1.
P: 6

L: C
P: C

L: Of Irreparable Personal Injuries
P: Of Irepurable Personal Inpries .

L: I
P: C

L: Irreparable Personal Injuries are either 1. Irre=
P: Ireparable Personal Injuries are either 1 . Jre=

L: :parable Disfigurement: 2. Irreparable Disablement: or 3.
P: : parable Dishigurement . 2 . Ireparable Disablement or 3 .

L: Mutilation.
P: Musitation .

L: II
P: 5

L: Under Disfigurement is comprised Discolourment.
P: Ander Disfigurement is comprived Descolourments

L: (A) (B)
P: ts

L: Irreparable Disfigurement is where in the shape or colour
P: Ireparable Disfigurement is where in the shape or colour

L: of a man's person any unalterable change is produced
P: of a man ' s person any unalterable change is produced

L: the
P: the

L: the effect of which is to render his aspect less agreeable.
P: the efect of which is to aesder his aspect les agreable .

L: Exposition
P: Exposition

L: 1
P: 1

L: [A Shape] As if his nose or ears or lips be split, or
P: [ ( E Thapel As if his nose or sas or lifs be stid or

L: a deep scar be made in any part of his body: so as
P: a dep : sear be made ih any part of his body : so as

L: either a
P: oi der a

L: upon healing to leave a hollow or protuberance.
P: upon heating to leave a Colow ord protelvsanen

L: 2
P: 7

L: [(B) Colour] As if a slight scar be made on any part
P: ( b ) Folarn] ts if a sight Sbar to mrade on anxpard

L: so as to leave neither hollow nor protuberance:
P: so as to lave neither bolow nor protuberance .

L: of his body; or any part of his body be marked with
P: of his bady ; or any part of his boly be marked with

L: an indelible stain.
P: an indebile stain.

L: Main-Text.
P: Main dtect .

L: III
P: 14

L: (A)
P: 

L: Irreparable Disablement may either be compleat
P: Ireparable Disablement may either be enptiat

L: B
P: 1

L: or incompleat: it is compleat where a man is deprived
P: or incompleat ; it is compleat where a man is deprived

L: (C)
P: ( C )

L: of the use of a member altogether: incompleat when he
P: of the use of a member altogether ; incompleat when he

L: is deprived of the use of it in part.
P: is depreved of the use of it in part .

L: Exposition
P: eilen

L: C
P: 6C

L: Simple Personal Injuries
P: Smple Personal Injurilgs

L: Where the quantity of damage which was intended is the
P: Where the quantity of damage which was intended is the

L: very quantity which eventually ensues, the act may be said
P: very quantity which evertualy ensue the act may bevsard

L: to be adequately intentional with respect to its conse-
P: to be adequately intentional with ruspect to it' conse=

L: -quences; when not so much, inadequately; when more,
P: =quenies , when not somuch , inadequately ; whenmore ,

L: more than adequately
P: more than dequabely

L: You intended for instance to strike the porter,
P: for intended for instance to strike the porter ,

L: whose leg you have broken. If
P: wloris ts n tav tohen . f

L: If your intention was to strike him in the leg in such
P: If sour intention was to st ake himin the leginsuch

L: manner that he might be obliged to have it cut off, or if
P: maner that he might be obliged to have it cut of , oril

L: you intended to strike him in the fore-arm in such manner
P: yovintended to shihekim in the fore arm in sucharanes

L: that he might be obliged to have his fore-arm cut off, and the
P: shat he might be obligzed to have his fore arm cut of , and the

L: case is that the damage he would suffer from the loss of a
P: case is that the damage he would sufer from the los of a

L: leg would not be materially greater or less than what he
P: agwould not be mnaterialy greater or ict than what he

L: would suffer from the loss of a fore-arm, in either of these
P: would sufer from the los he forarm , in either of these

L: cases the act was adequately intentional with regard to
P: case theaet was adequatiy intentional with regard to

L: the quality of damage.
P: the quantity of da mage .

L: If your intention was only to hurt him in the fore-
P: If your intention was only to hurt him in the fore

L: arm or the leg without depriving him of either, the act
P: arm or the leg without depriring him of either , the act

L: e
P: 2 .

L: was inad quately intentional: if your intention was to
P: was inadguately intentionalor if gyour intention was to

L: deprive him of his thigh or the whole of his arm the act
P: seprive him of his thigh or the whole of his arm the act=

L: was-
P: wuc a

L: 2
P: 35

L: The design was _ that Convicts once sent there should
P: The design was _ that Convicts once sent there should

L: never come back again. The plan, if there had been any
P: never come back again . The plan , of there had ben any

L: such thing, about the return of Convicts, would have been
P: such thing , about the return of Convicts , would have ben

L: dictated either by what I call justice (in which case it would
P: dictated ether by what I cal justice ( in which case it would

L: have run counter to the design) or by the supposed profitable
P: have oun counter to the design , or by the suposed profitable

L: injustice. On the former supposition, arrangements would have been
P: injustice . On the foner suporition , arangements would have ben

L: taken in the first place, for preventing the emigration of each
P: taken in the first place , for preventing the cmigration of each

L: Convict before the expiration of his legal terms of punishment_
P: Convect before the expiration of his legal term of punishmenta

L: in the next place, for affording him the means of quitting the
P: in the nert placs , for afording him the mens of guting the

L: Country immediately after _ if such should be his choice: _ ar-
P: Country imediately after _ if such should be his chorce : as

L: -rangements, if not of the positive cast, at any rate of the negative
P: rangements , if not of the posetive ceast , at any rate of the moge

L: viz: by removing from that time forwards whatever
P: twve vey : by remeving from that time forwardes whatever

L: obstacle might till then have been opposed as such to his escape.
P: obstacl might tel then have ben oposed as such to his cocape

L: Whatever had been the term of punishment fixed by each man's
P: Whatever had ben the term of punishment fixed by euch man ' s

L: sentence _ fourteen years _ between fourteen years and seven years _
P: sentence - fourtean years _ belwen fouren years and seve yoars

L: seven years or any shorter term _ care would have been taken at
P: seven yiars or any shorter term - care would have ben takon at

L: any rate, that from and after the expiration of it, his return
P: any rate , that from and after the experation of it , his relurn

L: should not be opposed by any positive and_factitious obstacle, the
P: should not be oposed by any posetive andr factitious dstace , the
